['To Kill a Mockingbird ', ' One character declares that for this man, "Attention, attention must be paid," and later Letta and Mrs. Forsythe abandon this character and his two companions at a particular restaurant. This man discusses how a relative "walked in the jungle and came out rich" while reminiscing the good old days of Dave Singleman with his boss, || “One Shot” after shooting a rabid dog named Tim Johnson . The black man Tom Robinson is falsely convicted of the rape of Mayella Ewell in this novel, which reveals the racism in the town of Maycomb, Alabama.  For 10 points, name this novel centering on Scout Finch, written by Harper Lee. ']
['Republic of Guatemala  ', '  After one character in this work destroys the morphine addict Mrs. Dubose’s flowers, he is forced to read to her everyday until she dies.  The father of the protagonist of this work is described as || United Fruit Company, but was later overthrown by the CIA in operation PBSUCCESS. This country’s indigenous people were once led by Pakal the Great and built the city of Tikal. For 10 points, name this Central American nation formerly led by Jacobo Arbenz and home to the Mayans. ']
['Dorothea Lange ', ' This country was home to the Kaqchikel and the K’iche’, who were conquered by Pedro de Alvarado. A later leader of this country who embraced the ‘guns and beans’ campaign to combat insurgents, Efraín Rios Montt, was later convicted of genocide against this country’s indigenous people. Another leader embraced Decree 900, an agrarian reform law opposed by the || Manzanar Internment Camp. This photographer of White Angel Breadline showed two children behind a nervously looking Florence Owens Thompson in her most famous photograph. For 10 points, name this female photographer of Migrant Mother . ']
['Muammar Mohammed Abu Minyar Gaddafi  ', ' One of this artist's works shows three Egyptian women bringing food to the dead and was inspired by her trip to the Middle East, and collaborated with Prickle Jones to depict the destruction of a Virginia Landmark. Another work by this artist shows a man nervously looking away from a crowd of people while his arms cover up a cup, and this artist also depicted a solemn Japanese family awaiting internment at || discotheque. This leader changed the flag of his country to an all-green banner, and he orchestrated the Lockerbie bombing. A 2011 civil war caused by the Arab Spring revolts brought down, for 10 points, what Libyan leader, who outlined his ideology in the Green Book? ']
['Colorado River  ', ' This leader may have been the target of an assassination attempt that brought down Itavia Flight 870. This man moved into the Bab al-Azizia barracks after the success of the 1 September Revolution. This man ordered a jihad against Switzerland following the arrest of his son Hannibal, and he was the target of Operation El Dorado Canyon after he bombed a West Berlin || Yuma, where it makes its only international border crossing. On its journey towards the Gulf of California, water from this river iscollected for hydroelectric use at Lake Mead. For 10 points, name this American river that flows through the Hoover Dam and which created the Grand Canyon. ']
['Liberty Leading the People  ', ' A project that moves water from this river to the Front Range Urban Corridor is known as the Grand Ditch. This river, which begins at the La Poudre Pass, is joined by the Gunnison and Gila Rivers. Changes in the flow of this river hundreds of years ago created the Salton Sea. This river flows through || handkerchief across his sash in this painting, while a boy with two pistols stands next to the title Phrygian Cap wearing figure. That woman leads others along the way by waving a giant tricolor flag above. For 10 points, name this Eugene Delacroix painting that commemorates the July Revolution. ']
['decapitation  ', ' One figure standing on the left side of this work legendarily resembled either the theater director Etienne Arago or the artist himself. The leftmost figure in this painting has his hand and a saber on a pile of rocks, while another man depicted in this painting is presented with only one sock. A figure wears a cholet || punishment from the destroyer god Shiva, while Gawain eventually enacted this form of punishment on the Green Knight. For 10 points, name this form of killing which involves chopping off one’s head. ']
['United States Secretary of State ', ' Description acceptable. In the Ramayana, Lakshmana uses the Indrastra to perform this action on Ravana’s son, Meghana, and an incident involving an infinite pillar of fire resulted in a god doing this action to Brahma. One character does this action to another character after receiving a girdle from Lord Berlitak and exchanging kisses for items such as a boar. Because of his ultimate devotion to Paravati, Ganesha was subjected to this type of || Peace Accords with Lê Đức Thọ. The last holder of this position was previously the CIA Director and succeeded Rex Tillerson. For 10 points, name this cabinet position, most recently held by Mike Pompeo and Anthony Blinken. ']
['mass spec trometry  ', ' One holder of this position helped resolve a dispute involving ships such as the USS San Jacinto . The longest serving holder of this position was unable to stop the SS Quanza from disembarking due to the efforts of Eleanor Roosevelt. A Nobel Peace Prize laureate who held this position organized a program that replaced the Morgenthau Plan, while another holder of this position controversially won the Nobel Prize for organizing the Paris || twice, this technique is called "tandem." After ionizing them, this technique measures the deflection of molecules through an electric field. For 10 points, name this technique that measures the mass to charge ratio of fragments of a molecule. ']
['(Henry) Graham Greene ', ' In one method, analytes are prepared for this technique by collisions with many neutral gas molecules. Another preparation step in this technique can be achieved by blasting proteins with a laser after placing it on a matrix and is known as MALDI. That method is often paired with a "time of flight" type of this technique. When done || James Wormwold depicted the Mestizo’s betrayal of a whiskey priest in a novel featuring anti-catholic authorities in Mexico. For 10 points, name this British author of Our Man in Havana and The Power and the Glory . ']
['Republic of Poland  ', ' In a novel by this author, a character who eats a lump of sugar at the mouth of an Indian Boy near a grave starts a fight with a small dog in a deserted house for a bone. Dr. Hasselbacher is murdered in another novel by this author whose protagonist starts a relationship with his secretary Beatrice Severn. The protagonist befriends the dentist Mr. Tench and is taught morse code by Coral Fellows in a novel by this author. This creator of || Tadeusz Kościuszko. The uprising of the Bar Confederation in this country eventually led to the Sejm ratifying its First Partition in 1773.. For 10 points, name this country whose Sigismund III moved its capital from Kraków to Warsaw. ']
['Piano Concerto s  ', ' This present-day country was invaded by foreign leaders like Charles X Gustav during the Second Northern War. This nation hosted the signing of the May 3rd Constitution, which was opposed by the Targowica Confederation. This country’s Stanisław II Augustus was its final monarch, who supported an uprising led by a major general who was instrumental at the Battle of Saratoga. That man was || minor piece of this type. Rachmaninoff’s four pieces in this genre are considered to be among the most difficult, especially the second. They usually contain three movements, the first of which ends in an improvised cadenza. For 10 points, name this type of work for a namesake solo instrument and accompanying ensemble, exemplified by Beethoven’s fifth and final one, Emperor. ']
['Caesar Marcus Aurelius Antoninus Augustus  ', ' Mozart’s ninth and twenty-second pieces of this type, both in E-flat major, feature a minuet in A-flat interrupting the final Rondo movement. One work in this genre begins with a descending flourish following a timpani roll. That is Edvard Grieg’s long A || Ctesiphon. Cassius’s campaign saw the first appearance of the Antonine Plague, which would go on to kill this man’s co-emperor Lucius Verus. For 10 points, name this last of the Five Good Emperors, who was succeeded by his son Commodus and wrote the Meditations on Stoic philosophy . ']
['grasses  ', ' Correspondence between this man and his tutor Fronto tell of his apprenticeship under his predecessor and adoptive father. Upon his ascension to the throne, this man reduced the silver content of the denarius. During this man’s reign, an invasion by Ballabar was part of the Marcomannic Wars. His general Cassius would later sack Selucia and || steppes and savannas. Cereals, such as wheat and corn, are part of this plant family that also includes bamboo. For 10 points, name this family of plants found on lawns. ']
['Jorge Luis Borges ', ' Animals that primarily consume members of this plant family contain an omasum and abomasum, produce a portion of food in need of further chewing called cud, have four-chambered stomachs, and are called ruminants. Members of this family are dominant on || and the Compass” penned a story in which a point from the basement of Carlos Daneri allows one to see every point in the universe, titled “The Aleph.” For 10 points, Name this Argentine author whose stories are collected in Ficciones . ']
['Marc Zakharovich Chagall ', ' In a poem by this author, he mentions the time “when the sorrows lays us low” and describes “the taste of fruit / the taste of water.” This author of “Shinto” wrote a story in which an object has the power to create obsession when an individual glances at it. In another story by this author, Scharlach kills a detective named Lonnrot, who was investigating three murders at the time. This author of “Death || yellow church flanked by two upside down houses, while a woman in a blue skirt plays a violin next to a man with a scythe. In that work by this artist, the two central figures, a man colored green and a lamb, stare into each other’s eyes. For 10 points, name this Belarusian painter of I and the Village. ']
['American Pie ', ' This artist portrayed a musician in a purple suit floating over multiple houses in The Green Violinist . This painter depicted himself and his wife, Bella Rosenfeld, sharing a kiss while floating in a work painted a few weeks before their marriage. In addition to The Birthday, this artist painted a work which sees a || news on the doorstep,” this song laments about the deaths of the Big Bopper, Richie Valens, and Buddy Holly on February 3, 1959. For 10 points, which Don McLean song discusses “the day the music died”? ']
['Tao te Ching  ', ' This song inquires whether the listener has “ faith in God above” before asking whether music can “save your mortal soul.” The composer of this song may reference Charles Manson after describing the assassinations of John F. Kennedy and Lee Harvey Oswald by claiming that “the courtroom was adjourned” and that “no verdict was returned.” After recalling how there was “bad || eternal self if it can be spoken. This text advocates for inaction or "wu wei" and along with the Zhuangzi, it forms the foundation for the philosophical school of Taoism. For 10 points, name this Chinese classic credited to the "Old Master" Laozi. ']
['George W(ilcken) Romney or (Willard) Mitt Romney  ', ' This text's "mysterious female" can allow someone to access its title concept, and this text notes that "true words aren't eloquent and eloquent words aren't true." This work can also be called the Sutra or the "5,000-character classic" and it's first line states that the title concept can't be its || brainwashed in Vietnam; that man’s son was the only Republican Senator to support the impeachment of President Trump. For 10 points, what surname is shared by a Governor of Michigan and his son, the Republican nominee for the 2012 United States Presidential Election? ']
['Willy Loman  ', ' A man with this surname served as Richard Nixon’s first Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, though he resigned his post shortly after confronting the victims of Hurricane Agnes in Pennsylvania. Another man with this surname was CEO of Bain Capital and lost his first Senate election to a five-time incumbent, Ted Kennedy. One man with this surname claimed he was || Howard Wagner. This man's son burns a pair of sneakers after failing a math test, ending his football career. Linda, Biff, and Happy, all constitute the family that this man heads in the drama he appears in. For 10 points, name this man who commits suicide by crashing a car at the end of an Arthur Miller play. ']
['Dubai , United Arab Emirates ', ' The Cabildo Abierto rallies were held to try to persuade one member of this family to run for Vice President. The Swiss accused that member of this family of trying to deposit Nazi riches in secret bank accounts, and thus threw tomatoes at her during her “Rainbow Tour” of Europe. The Triple A death squad ruined another member of this family’s return from exile when they massacred his followers at the|| “Seven Star” hotel award was received by a sail shaped building in this city. This city, which contains an artificial archipelago shaped like a world map, is located on the Persian Gulf just north of Abu Dhabi. For 10 points, name this largest city in the United Arab Emirates, home to the Burj Khalifa. ']
['soil  ', ' The Cayan Tower in this city takes a helical shaped pattern, while a proposed residence called “The Opus” is being built in this city by Zaha Hadid. A hotel named for Five Palms can be found in Jumeirah beach near this city, and a the first || O, A, B, and C denote layers of this substance, all of which lie above bedrock. The topmost layer of this substance contains humus, which is made of decomposing organic matter. For 10 points, the nutrition of what substance is restored by fertilization? ']
['Delaware ', ' Materials added to this substance are characterized by a NPK rating. H+ displaces other cations in an cation exchange process in these substances which are cleaned by phytoremediation. It's not glass, but lime is added to this substance to increase its pH. Loamy types of this material both contain water and are aerated. || Fort Christina on the orders of Sweden in this state along its namesake river, and the city of Wilmington was later founded on that fort’s site. For 10 points, name this “First State”, whose capital was moved to Dover. ']
['Winter  ', ' Two families fought over land in this state in a court case that formed an exception to the Mozambique rule and led to further conflict over the placement of the Transpeninsular Line in this state, where Robert Carr’s fleet seized New Castle, the center of the oddly shaped 12-Mile Circle on its northern border, from the Dutch. Peter Minuit founded || song cycle by Franz Schbuert which is named for this season. The last concerto in an Antonio Vivaldi piece depicts, for 10 points, what time period that follows L'Otono, or Autumn, in The Four Seasons? ']
['The Adventures of Augie March ', ' A piece which is described by this adjective starts with the quarter note melody E E E E F E C E, and suddenly jumps to rapid right hand chromatic style descents. Another piece named for this word contains pieces such as "Will o' the wisp" and "The Linden Tree," while staccato notes played by the strings begin a movement that showcases and is titled for this time period. The poetry of Wilhelm Muller describes a || Sophie, Thea, and Stella, who he ends up marrying. This character’s brothers are Simon and George and he opens his eponymous work by stating that “I am an American , Chicago born.” For 10 points, name this title character of a Saul Bellow work describing his “Adventures”. ']
['Cyrus the Great  ', ' In the final paragraph of the work this character appears in he exclaims “Look at me, going everywhere!” He earlier has his ship sunk and ends up in a lifeboat with a lunatic. This character, who joins the merchant navy and works for Einhorn, flies to Mexico with a lover who attempts to catch lizards with an eagle. He goes on to have affairs with || Babylonian Captivity. This ruler detailed his plans for human rights in his namesake cylinder, and conquered both Media and Lydia for his kingdom that had its capital at Pasargadae. For 10 points, name this founder of the Achaemenid Persian empire. ']
['Pieter Bruegel the Elder ', ' At one battle, this leader organized for his troops to ride camels, terrifying the opposing side’s horses into defeat. Tomyris, the Queen of Massagetae, legendarily killed this man by beheading him and placing his head in a jar of blood. This victor of the Battle of Thymbra passed the Edict of Restoration, which granted the Jews religious tolerance, ending the|| two sheaves of grain on the wall. Another of this man’s paintings includes a man carrying a dead fox, and depicts a wintertime scene. In this man’s most famous painting, a farmer pushes a plough and the title figure’s legs are visible in the water. For 10 points, name this Dutch renaissance painter of The Peasant Wedding, Hunters in the Snow, and Landscape with the Fall of Icarus. ']
['velocity  ', ' In one of this man’s paintings, a lamb lies down in the foreground by a sheep and pig, which are both being shorn. In that same painting, a woman puts a blue cloak on her husband. In another of his paintings, an “extra foot” is visible under plates of bread, porridge, and soup carried on a door off its hinges, and there are || light is invariant by the second postulate of special relativity. In length contraction, objects are perceived as shorter when this quantity increases. Integrated with respect to time to give position is, for 10 points, what quantity whose change per unit time is acceleration? ']
['Dubliners ', ' In one formula, w equals the hyperbolic arctangent of this quantity divided by a constant. Two successive changes in reference frame gives a nonzero angular form of this quantity in a Wigner rotation. Decreasing slope on a spacetime diagram indicates an increasing value of this quantity. This property of || "An Encounter," the opening story in this collection shows a youth lamenting the death of Father Flynn. Mangan buys a gift for her brother in this collection's story "Araby," while this book ends with snow falling on the grave of a man named Michael Furey in its concluding story, "The Dead." For 10 points, name this collection of Irish stories penned by James Joyce. ']
['Gunpowder Plot  ', ' A story in this book details a mother signing up her child for countless concerts as a piano accompanist and eventually stops doing so until she is fully paid. Another story in this book depicts a man whipping a pair of young boys  for having "sweethearts." In addition to "A Mother" and || Lord Monteagle not given an anonymous letter addressed to him to Robert Cecil. A group of Catholics led by Robert Catesby were the main participants in this event, in which James I would have been killed in the House of Lords. For 10 points, name this 1605 plot which included Guy Fawkes. ']
['Alaska ', ' Participants in this event used munitions and supplies from Hewell Grange and Warwick Castle to defend themselves in the Holbeche House. Thomas Percy helped plan this event, whose aftermath saw the imprisonment and execution of Father Henry Garnet. This event would have featured the kidnapping of Princess Elizabeth had || thunderbird at the base of a long cedarwood tree trunk in many sculptures. Whale hunting and Totem Pole assembling are prominent in, for 10 points, what northernmost state? ']
['Wallace Stevens ', ' Early art from this modern day state involved making animal shoes and jackets, and was commonly referred to as “skin sewing.” One art form still common in this state is separated into “frontal” and “shame” types, while an animal in that style is presented with an unusually long paddle tail. People from this state created “good luck amulets” when doing a particular activity, while the Haida people of this state famouslydepicted creatures including the || glass knobs,” in which a woman's "horny feet protrude.” This poet of “Sunday Morning” wrote about a “muscular one” who is told to whip up “concupiscent curds” which begins “Call out the roller of big cigars.” For 10 points, name this poet of the “The Emperor of Ice-Cream,” and “Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird.” ']
['carbon capture  ', ' A poem by this writer asks “What is divinity if it can come only in silent shadows and in dreams?” That poem by this writer continually repeats the lines “Death is the mother of Beauty.” In another poem, this poet wrote about a “dresser of deal lacking the three || Occidental would invest in machines carrying out this process as an excuse to continue burning fossil fuels. In this process, sequestration has replaced the work of 40 million trees in British Columbia. For 10 points, Carbon Engineering, backed by Bill Gates, aims to do what process which removes carbon dioxide and stores it underground? ']
['Henry IV of France  ', ' Description Acceptable . In February 2010, Barack Obama published the Federal Strategy on building up infrastructure to carry out this process. Byproducts of this carbon-negative process include amines and nitrogen, which are released through “stacks”. University of California-Berkeley professors expressed concern that gas companies such as || St. Bartholomew’s Day Massacre. While stuck in Parisian traffic, this king was assassinated by François Ravaillac. The first Bourbon King of France was, for 10 points, which monarch, who claimed that “Paris is well worth a mass” after converting to Catholicism? ']
['Spain  ', ' This leader became heir presumptive after the death of Francis, Duke of Anjou. This man was raised and influenced by his mother, Jeanne d’Albret, after his father, Antoine of Navarre, was killed at the Siege of Rouen. This leader was victorious at the battle of Coutras, and this man first married Margaret of Valois. Days afterwards, Gaspard de Coligny was murdered in the || "Love, The Magician." An opera set in this country sees the title character sing the aria "Love is a Rebellious Bird" before being stabbed by Don Jose in the woo of Escamillo. George Bizet's Carmen is set in, for 10 points, what Iberian Country whose cities include Madrid? ']
['real gas ses  ', ' A section of a ballet from this modern day country sees the violins followed by the oboes repeating E F trills before its climax. That composer from this country created a piece titled for the "Night in the Gardens of [this country]," and also created a "Ritual Fire Dance" in a ballet from this country that translates to || volume and intermolecular attractions and is derived from kinetic-molecular theory. One law describing these substances states volume is proportional to pressure and temperature. Modeled by Boyle's law is, for 10 points, what state of matter formed by vaporization of liquids? ']
['United States Presidential Election of 1824 ', ' Nonsensical "loops" predicted by an equation modeling these substances are canceled out with a simple approximation called the Maxwell construction. These substances are characterized by a compression factor, Z. These substances do zero work during free expansion. An equation modeling these substances accounts for particle || Era of Good Feelings, resulted in a contingent election where presumptive victor Andrew Jackson was defeated with the help of Henry Clay in what he later termed a “corrupt bargain.” For 10 points, which election featured the ascendancy of John Quincy Adams to the presidency? ']
['Moon  ', ' One candidate in this election was succeeded by Richard Rush as Secretary of the Treasury soon afterwards; that same contender only won the states of Virginia and Georgia in this election. The winner ofthis election later joined the National Republican Party near the end of his term before later becoming a congressman. This election, which ended the || “Amongst the flowers; I am alone with my pot of wine.” The aforementioned poet of that work titled for “Drinking alone by [this object]” supposedly tried while trying to grab a reflection of it. For 10 points, Li Bai often wrote about what celestial object contrasted with the sun? ']
['Republic of India  ', ' A story whose title mentions multiple of these objects starts with two characters traveling to a Toronto hospital to see their father’s heart condition, and ends while the narrator sees camel-like stones in an elegant garden. In a play, Death is disguised as beggar women and this object is eventually personified by a woodcutter. In a poem whose central subject is this object, the speaker states, || Shiv Sena. A Communist government rules this country's southwestern state of Kerala. This country's "National Congress" lost a 2019 election to this country's governing BJP. For 10 points, name this country currently led by Narendra Modi. ']
['Perón family  ', ' Fishermen from this country have often been held hostage by a southern counterpart's navy as part of the Palk Bay dispute. In this country, Naxalites have allied with indigenous adivasis in fighting against corporations like Tata Steel. In a 2020 video clip, a student states that he wants to "destroy [this country]," prompting his teacher to respond "grape." Minor parties in this country include the CPI(M) and the || Ezeiza airport. That member of this family’s followers were known as the descamisados, or “shirtless ones”, and he was succeeded by his third wife Isabel. For 10 points, name this family of Eva and Juan, prominent leaders of 20th century Argentina. ']
['Miles Davis ', ' For a prime number p, this operation on p minus one is congruent to negative one mod p according to Wilson’s theorem. The natural log of this function of n is approximately equal to n times the natural log of n minus n. This function can be defined for complex numbers using the gamma function, and it can be approximated by || Joaquin Rodrigo’s Concierto de Aranjuez in one album, and included the tracks “Move” and “Boplicity” in another. This creator of Sketches of Spain included the tracks “Blue in Green” and “Freddie Freeloader” in a five track album pioneering modal jazz. For 10 points, name this trumpeter on Kind of Blue . ']
['Battle of Kadesh ', ' This man’s most famous piece switches between intervals on a D and E flat Dorian Scale, and he collaborated with Chick Corea on albums such as Nefertiti . This man took recordings from || division was successful in pushing them towards the Orontes River. Years after this battle, King Muwatalli II of the Hittites signed the world’s oldest surviving peace treaty with the Egyptians. The world’s largest chariot battle ever was, for 10 points, what 1274 BC battle in which Ramesses II boastfully claimed victory? ']
['The Cherry Orchard ', ' This battle was chronicled in the Bulletin and the Poem , both of which included propaganda supporting one side. Prior to this battle, two Shasu nomads gave incorrect information to one participant by claiming that the enemy was near Tunip. The Amurru fought for another participant in this battle, but the newly-created Ptah || student" has been twice expelled from a university. That character, Trofimov, is loved by Anya, who is the daughter of the protagonist of this play. At the end of this play, Firs is locked in a house while he hears axes being used on the title estate. Loaphkin and Ravenaskaya appear in, For 10 points, name this Anton Chekhov play. ']
['ATP  ', ' The second act of this play opens with one woman exclaiming her delight of playing the mandolin, which turns out to be a guitar. A character in this play has a very awkward inability and is appropriately nicknamed "Twenty-two and troubles," while another character in this play complains that an "eternal || cAMP. 28 of this molecule are produced using a proton gradient established by the electron transport chain. For 10 points, what molecule often used to power active transport has a function similar to a charged battery? ']
['The Last Judgment  ', ' 2,4-Dinitrophenol decreases synthesis of this molecule. A class of proteins named for this molecule includes MDR proteins and the CFTR protein and is called the ABC transporter family. Uncouplers decrease the synthesis of this molecule, which is converted by adenylyl cyclase to the secondary messenger || St. Bartholomew holding up his flayed skin. At the right of that fresco titled for this scene, a commanding Christ raises a finger to cast sinners down to Hell. For 10 points, the Sistine Chapel’s altar wall contains Michaelangelo’s depiction of what scene, portraying the fate of human souls?']
['Franz Uri Boas  ', ' The figure of Hope reaches out to receive a crown from a cherub while pointing to a large version of this scene in the Arena Chapel. Minos, who is shown with donkey ears and a snake coiling around him, appears next to a man striking people with an oar in another depiction of this scene. That version of this scene was the subject of the “fig leaf” campaign by Daniel da Volterra and displays || Baffin Island. This author of The Study of Geography famously observed gift giving ceremonies conducted by Kawkiutl Indians known as the Potlatch. For 10 points, name this father of American Anthropology. ']
['Mikhail Sergeyevich Gorbachev ', ' In one work, this man argues the role of nutrition and "domestication" on a man's "mentality" and later states "languages were moulded by thought, not by languages." This man stated "alternating sounds" do not actually exist in certain languages in a text written for a response to Daniel Brinton. This man discussed the differences between physical and historical sciences in one work and later traveled to study migration patterns on || August Coup. That man was Boris Yeltsin. This leader created the policies of glasnost and perestroika to promote openness and government transparency in his nation. For 10 points, name this final General Secretary of the Soviet Union. ']
['Slave s  ', ' This man’s dismissal of Dinmukhamed Kunaev resulted in the Jeltoqsan student riots. One advisor of this man, Gennadi Gerasimov, stated that “every country decides on its own which road to take”, which eventually became known as the Sinatra Doctrine for the Frank Sinatra song “My Way”. This leader was overthrown by a man who was photographed on top of a tank in front of Parliament in the || Stamp Paid. In that novel, a spiteful location home to Paul D is inhabited by a mysterious ghost who haunts one of them named Sethe Suggs. For 10 points, Toni Morrison’s novel Beloved centers on what people who ran away from harsh life on plantations? ']
['Baghdad ', ' In a novel, one of these people awkwardly desires many colors on her deathbed before another receives the message “definitions belonged to the definers.” One of these people who remarks about a protagonist’s “chokecherry tree” possesses a heart like that of a tobacco tin. Sixo, who is burned by Schoolteacher, is one of these people in a novel where one of them is ferried across a river by || al-Mansur. During a siege led by Hulagu Khan, the scholar Tusi saved multiple books from this city’s House of Wisdom. For 10 points, name this former capital of Abbasid caliphate that currently serves as the capital of Iraq. ']
['Russia n military  ', ' During one siege of this city, the perpetrator’s wife Doquz convinced him to murder everyone but the Christians. Tughril Beg captured this city for the Buyid dynasty, which saw the reversal of the Mihna religious persecution policy by Al-Mutawakkil. The creator of algebra, al-Khwarizmi, worked in this city that was founded by|| Mariupol after taking control of Pripyat and Chernobyl. Valery Gerasimov is the de facto leader of this force, which has invaded a neighboring country due to an alleged genocide in Crimea. For 10 points, name this force currently engaged in armed conflict with the Ukrainian military. ']
['luminosity  ', ' Description acceptable . Equipment belonging to this force was marked with a Z symbol to prevent friendly fire. The Wagner Group serves as auxiliaries to this force. Before being killed, a member of this force reportedly asked about a parcel before stating, "Mama, this is so hard" in a text message. This force bombed a maternity ward in || surface temperature and this quantity is on the y-axis of an HR diagram. Dividing this quantityby four pi distance squared gives apparent brightness. For 10 points, give this measure of energy radiated by a star per unit time, denoted L. ']
['L yndon Baines Johnson  ', ' Malmquist bias favors objects with higher values for this quantity. It's not related to thickness, but this quantity decreases along the horizontal branch. Different type Ia supernovae have a consistent value for this quantity, which enables their use as standard candles. For the main sequence, this quantity is positively correlated with || Coke Stevenson in a Senate election. During the 1960 election, in which he served as running mate, he would help deliver his home state of Texas by a very narrow margin. For 10 points, name this vice president of Kennedy, who took over as president following Kennedy’s assassination. ']
['Church (Accept Cathedral but NOT Basilica; Accept Church of the Light or Cardboard Cathedral or St. Paul’s Cathedral , if Sagrada Familia is said ANTI PROMPT by asking “What type of building?”) ', ' One book by Roger Stone is subtitled The Case Against [this man]. That book, The Man Who Killed Kennedy , claims that this man used blackmail to force one president to select him for a position over Stuart Symington, though that belief is contested by other biographers of this man such as Robert Caro. Earlier, this man may have used fraudulent ballots to defeat || Christchurch is constructed completely out of cardboard. One of these places containing a Whispering Gallery was built on Ludgate Hill after a 1666 event, and another of these buildings designed by Antonio Gaudi is scheduled for completion in 2026. For 10 points, name these places of Christian worship. ']
['Pablo Neruda ', ' The exterior of one of these buildings supposedly contains an unusual 4x4 magic square that has every column and row summing to 33 instead of 34. Another building of this type across Latimer street was meant to revive a city after a 2011 Earthquake. Tadeo Ando designed one of these buildings “of the light,” and one of these structures in || “Every Day you Play,” which alongside “Body of a Woman” make up one collection by him. In that work, this man claims “In you everything sank!” after a poem beginning “Tonight I can write the saddest lines.” For 10 points, name this Chilean poet of Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair . ']
['Mongols  ', ' In a poem by this author, he describes a time where a man “ lonely as a tunnel” forges a woman like a weapon. This author repeats the refrain, “Ah, you who are silent!” in a poem describing an animal who “[buzzes] in my soul, drunk with honey.” This author claims “I want to do to you what spring does with cherry trees” in a poem titled || feigned retreat to achieve victory while led by Subutai. One group of these people were named for the color of their tents, the Golden Horde. For 10 points, name these people that conquered significant portions of Eastern Europe and Russia under the leadership of Genghis Khan. ']
['Iceland ', ' These people lost to Dmitri Ivanovich at the battle of Kulikovo, causing him to take the name ‘Donskoy’. One leader of these people was later killed following the Great Stand on the Ugra River, where these people were defeated. Previously, at the battle of the Kalka River, these people used the tactic of || meat is the national dish of this nation which also contains Thingvellir National Park. This nation, where the earliest parliament in history known as the Althing was created, contains a site near its capital known as the “Blue Lagoon.” For 10 points, name this tiny island nation with capital at Reykjavik. ']
['Edgar Allan Poe ', ' The rotating restaurant atop the Perlan Observatory provides magnificent views of this country, while the Puffin Island of the coast of this nation is a popular nesting site for the namesake bird. The Kerid Crater Lake can be accessed via the Gold Circle route in this country, and it also contains a waterfall known as Dettifoss. A cured shark || Prince Prospero’s ball.  This author also described a sound similar t o “a watch enveloped in cotton” in a short story in which the narrator murders his vulture-eyed landlord and buries him under the floorboards.  For 10 points, name this American horror author of “The Masque of the Red Death” and “The Tell-Tale Heart”. ']
['Hispaniola ', ' This author is eulogized in a Stephen Mallarme sonnet that states “They, like an upstart hydra hearing the angel once, purify the meaning of tribal words”, titled for the “Tomb of [this author]”.  One work by this author describes how the title character holds “illimitable dominion over all” in a short story where a plague kills everyone at || perejil during the Parsley Massacre. A man who ordered the assassination of the Mirabal sisters led a country on this island, while its neighbor was established by the only successful slave revolt in history under Jean Jacques Dessalines and Toussaint L'overture. For 10 points, name this Caribbean island home to Haiti and the Dominican Republic. ']
['Flute ', ' This island’s indigenous people have elongated craniums as a result of wood planks being tied around the head of their infants to toughen their skulls. An event, whose most bloody period was known as “the cutting”, saw citizens of this island murdered by troops if they were unable to roll the r in|| Bolero . This instrument plays rapid sixteenth notes to open the Moldau section of Biedrich Smetana’s Ma Vlast , while it is featured in Debbusy’s Syrinx and opens his work, Prelude to the Afternoon of a Faun . James Galway famously plays, for 10 points, what diminutive relative of the piccolo? ']
['Factorial function ', ' At the beginning of the Unfinished Symphony, this instrument opens the first melody by introducing a half, quarter, eighth, eighth, eighth note pattern. In another piece whose main melody starts with this instrument it chromatically descends and ascends from C sharp to G, and this instrument begins the main theme played throughout the repetitive piece || Stirling’s formula. In a Taylor series, these functions are found in the denominator of each term. The number of permutations of n elements is given by this operation on n. For 10 points, name this function that returns the product of the first n positive integers. ']
['W orld W ar I  ', ' Jorge Luis Borges criticized this film by saying “no one would care to see” it again. Gregg Toland implemented low-angle shots into this film, whose protagonist tears up the “Declaration of Principles” after firing his friend Jedidiah Leland. In this film, one character’s political career is ruined after his affair with opera singer || Tannenberg, in which Erich Ludendorff and Paul von Hindenburg defeated a Russian army. Russia was later forced to sign the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk. For 10 points, name this “Great War” in which the Central Powers were defeated by the Entente. ']
['Islamic Republic of Iran  ', ' Prior to this war, that side’s general Yuri Danilov developed “Plan 19”, which was criticized for its focus on East Prussia, near which the Attack of the Dead Men occured. Another battle in this war was given its name to avenge a defeat for the Teutonic Knights. That battle was the Battle of || Hezbollah. This country's 2021 election was won by the leader of the Combatant Clergy Association, Ebrahim Raisi. This country's Supreme Leader Ali Khameini lambasted Donald Trump after the latter withdrew from a highly-touted nuclear deal. For 10 points, name this country with its capital at Tehran. ']
['Pictures at an Exhibition ', ' After he was detained in this country's Evin Prison, British environmentalist Morad Tahbaz went on a hunger strike. In March 2022, this country launched a series of missiles at a neighboring country's city of Erbil, leading to widespread condemnation of its Quds force. This country is the primary source of funding for both the Houthi rebels and Hassan Nasrallah's militant group || “The Market at Limoges.” A movement in this piece depicting the hut of a Russian witch precedes one named after a Ukrainian Landmark, titled “The Great Gate at Kiev.” For 10 points, name this Victor Hartmann inspired composition by Modest Mussorgsky. ']
['David Copperfield ', ' One movement in this piece begins with the bassoon playing five repeated E flats, which gives way to a soloist first playing the notes E flat, G sharp. A section of this work starts with repeated two note slurs to showcase children, and a recurring motif in this work begins with the notes G, F, B flat. This piece featured one of the first orchestral saxophone solos and depicts two women quarreling in || Steerforth, who ran off with Ham’s fiance Emily. Traddles, one of the protagonist’s school friends, helps him expose the main villain for bank fraud. The protagonist marries Agnes Wickfield after saving her father from ruin at the hands of Uriah Heep. For 10 points, name this semi-autobiographical Charles Dickens coming of age novel. ']
['Haymarket Square Riot  ', ' One character in this novel lives with Mrs. Gummidge in an upside down boat. The title character runs to Dover escaping from his step-father and goes to live with his eccentric aunt, who calls him “Trot.” That man’s nephew, Ham, drowns trying to save sailors on a boat that also carried James || 8-hour workday during this event that took place at the McCormick Harvesting Machine Company Plant. For 10 points, name this 1886 labor riot in Chicago which saw an unknown striker throw a bomb at police officers. ']
['Nikolai Gogol ', ' Albert Weiner sculpted a commemorative statue for this event depicting a woman in a robe standing over a fallen man. Rudolph Schnaubelt most likely caused this incident, which resulted in the suicide of Louis Lingg. The main action of this event interrupted a speech on socialism delivered by Samuel Fielden, and its aftermath saw the pardon of three of its conspirators by John Peter Altgeld. Striking workers lobbied for an|| Spain in another story by this author of “A May Night” and “Viy.” A story by this man climaxes when Yakovelevich discovers the title appendage belonging to Kovyalov in a piece of bread. The Inspector General is by, For 10 points, what Russian author of “Diary of a Madman,” “The Nose,” and “The Overcoat?” ']
['alkenes  ', ' A story by this author follows a theologian, a philosopher, and a rhetorician encountering a witch while returning on a summer hike to their respective residences. After proposing to Maria, the title character of a play by this author sends a letter to the Postmaster mocking the people of a particular town. A man madly believes he is the King of || E/Z notation due to these molecules’ cis/trans isomerism. These compounds can be hydrogenated into alkanes, and their general formula is C n H 2n . For 10 points, name these hydrocarbons which contain at least one carbon-carbon double bond. ']
['Emperor Hirohito  ', ' The acid-catalyzed elimination of water from a tertiary alcohol can produce a trisubstituted form of these molecules. The addition of mercuric acetate can convert these compounds into alcohols in a process which follows Markovnikov’s rule. The favored product of these molecules in elimination reactions is predicted by Zaitsev’s rule. The configuration of these non-cyclic molecules is denoted by || “endure the unendurable”. The aforementioned Jewel Voice Broadcast was delivered by this man, who is commonly referred to as Shōwa. For 10 points, name this Emperor of Japan during World War II. ']
['Altarpiece s [Accept Isenheim Altarpiece or The Ghent Altarpiece ) ', ' This man created the Unit 731 division to create biological warfare technology, but disguised it as a public health agency. During one failed coup against this leader, the League of Blood was unable to murder Charlie Chaplin due to his location at a wrestling arena in the May 15 incident. This leader alerted his people to avoid “outbursts of emotion” in order to keep “the confidence of the world” in a speech that urged its listeners to prepare to || Grunewald created one of these artworks named after Isenheim, while the central scene of another artwork of this type depicts angels kneeling to a holy animal, titled “The Adoration of the Lamb.” For 10 points, name this type of church artwork which includes Jan Van Eyck’s “Ghent.” ']
['Bertrand Arthur William Russell ', ' A painting of this type has a scene where a volcanic eruption serves as the background of a young Jesus playing with Mary’s necklace, while also portraying a pale figure whose face is obscured by an orange orb. Another work of this type depicts an angelic choir next to a depiction of Eve grabbing a fruit, and shows many figures surrounding an octagonal structure. Matthias || nineteen syllables” to propose a hierarchy of variable languages, the most famous of which is often phrased using a barber. For 10 points, name this British philosopher and logician that names a paradox about a set containing all sets that do not contain themselves, who co-wrote Principia Mathematica. ']
['Rabindranath Tagore ', ' One section of this philosopher’s  largest work contains a full page proof of how 1+1=2. This monist thinker contradicted Meinon’s theory by constructing sentences with ‘definite descriptions’ that do not exist. He used many paradoxes, such as one about “the least integer not namable in fewer than || “not knowing how to cast nets” in a collection in which he famously claims “Let my country awake!” That collection by this man begins with the claim “Thou hast made me endless, such is thy pleasure.” For 10 points, name this Bengali poet of Gitanjali . ']
['Shinto ism ', ' An author described this man’s poetry as “so abundant and simple” while claiming that a new Renaissance had been created in his country. This author describes the rain clouds of July with its “burden ofunshed showers” after tasting “hidden honey” while also describing the actions of a “reed flute” and a “frail vessel” in one work. This man compares his homeland to “homesick cranes” and depicts children || Tsuku-no-Mikoto. Susano'o destroys his sister's rice fields in this myth system, leading to the sun goddess hiding in a cave. The brother-husband of Izanami, Izanagi, washes his face and gives birth to Amaterasu in, for 10 points, what religion originating from Japan? ']
['Battle of New Orleans ', ' In this mythology, a giant catfish that lives in mud causes earthquakes when he moves. A primordial god in this religion attempts to save his wife from the underworld, only to light a fire and see her rotting corpse. The origin of day and night came from when the goddess of food was killed by the god of the moon, || ladders, and British General Pakenham was killed in this battle. Full pardons were granted to pirates led by Jean Lafitte who fought in this battle, which actually occurred after the signing of the Treaty of Ghent. For 10 points, name this final battle of the War of 1812, a victory for Andrew Jackson near its namesake Louisianian city. ']
['Jakob Ludwig Felix Mendelssohn Bartholdy  ', ' One group that fought at this battle had earlier been attacked by a fleet headed by the USS Carolina, commanded by Daniel Patterson, who would go on to hold a battery attacked by William Thornton. One British offensive was impeded by Thomas Mullins forgetting to bring || Songs Without Words . This composer’s fifth symphony was created to celebrate the 300th anniversary of the Augsburg Confession, and his trip to Fingal’s Cave inspired his Hebrides Overture . For 10 points, name this German composer of the Scottish and Italian symphonies. ']
['Detective ', ' A clarinet melody in this composer’s third symphony was meant to evoke many “snap dances” while the second movement of his fourth symphony uses the same instrument to evoke the chant of a priest. This composer’s fifth symphony quotes Wagner’s Parsifal and eventually leads up to the “Dresden Amen,”  and a “Spinner’s Song” appears alongside many Venetian Themes in his || Sheppard . In a story titled “The Final Problem,” another character of this type fakes death at Reichenbach Falls while battling his enemy Professor James Moriarty. For 10 points, name this profession of Hercule Poirot and Sherlock Holmes, who often are the protagonists of mystery novels. ']
['Alexandria  ', ' It is not a priest, but a story revolving around the title “Blue Cross” introduces a character of this type named Father Brown. People of this type seek Arturo Belano and other visceral realists in a Roberto Bolaño novel titled for them. A fugitive named Casetti appears in a novel centering around a character of this type, who in another book is presented by narrator James || earthquake, whose epicenter was in the Eastern Mediterranean. One of this city’s structures, built on its island of Pharos, was a Wonder of the Ancient World. Eratosthenes studied at a famous library in, for 10 points, what Egyptian city, founded by Alexander the Great? ']
['Chicago , Illinois ', ' One structure in this city had four statues of the god Triton placed on its corners. The Septuagint was made in this city, which possessed the world’s largest Jewish population during antiquity. Another building in this city may have been organized by Demetrius of Phalerum in the 3rd century BC. This city was heavily damaged by a tsunami caused by the 365 || Nuclear Energy can be found in this home of the Pritzker Pavilion . An Alexander Calder statue titled Flamingo can be found in this city, which also contains the Anish Kapoor designed “Bean” in its Millennium Park. For 10 points, name this Illinois city that contains the Willis Tower. ']
['solid surface s  ', ' A Samuel Insull designed opera house located in this city has been possibly referred to as his namesake throne, and a recent structure in this city has been named “Aqua” due to its resemblance of water ripples. A feminine central figure is the subject of a sculpture in this city originally named The Sun, The Moon, and One Star . A Henry Moore sculpture titled || gamma and has units of joules per square meter or newtons per meter. That force is also decreased by detergents, and causes capillary action. For 10 points, a "tension" named for what entities enables insects to walk on water? ']
['Francisco Franco Bahamonde  ', ' This is the first word in the name of a technique that exploits evanescent waves to measure dissociation constants. A model of a process at these entities states theta equals alpha p over one plus alpha p, thus relating fractional coverage to pressure. The Langmuir isotherm models adsorption on these entities. A force named for these entities is denoted || World War II, which was able to survive a massive Soviet counterattack near Leningrad. Years after fighting in the Rif War, this leader won a war in which he opposed the Abraham Lincoln Brigade and bombed the town of Guernica. For 10 points, name this fascist dictator who ruled Spain after winning the Spanish Civil War until 1975. ']
['Citizen Kane ', ' The Vertical Syndicate was the only trade union permitted in this man’s country. This leader built the Valley of the Fallen with the use of forced labor, which was put into disuse through the “Pact of Forgetting” after this man’s death. This leader sent the Blue Division to fight in || Susan Alexander is revealed by the political boss Jim Gettys. The title character resides at the Xanadu estate in this film, where he dies shortly after uttering the word “Rosebud”. For 10 points, name this 1941 Orson Welles film chronicling the life of the title newspaper tycoon. ']
['Islamic Prayer  ', ' This man added a mirror reflecting the legs of a green table in the background of his work depicting the title fruits, named The Watermelons . A work by this man which portrays a rising hot air balloon reading “RM” famously shows him as a boy at the title location, and a work by this artist depicting fists coming out of a mountain is part of 27 works showcasing workers at the || rakat . The fajr and isha are forms of this practice, usually preceded by a cleansing known as wudu . The call to this action is mainly taken by a muezzin , and it must be completed while aligned with the qiblah , pointing to Mecca. For 10 points, name this devotic practice that Islamic adherents must comply to five times a day. ']
['Mount Fuji ', ' A type of this action, translating to “the odd one,” involves another type of this action known as a qunut . Ruku and sujud are both included in movements this action must be taken in known as the || Mannen Bridge can be seen in a depiction of this object, the most famous of which shows two boats trying to escape an enormous feature with claw-like ends titled The Great Wave Off Kanagawa . Hokusai famously painted 36 views of, For 10 points, what Japanese mountain? ']
['France ', ' An oddly shaped red tree obscures the path of three men on horseback traversing an earthen bridge to reach this location. Men struggle to build a water mill and individuals try to avoid scattered papers in other depictions of this location. Workers attempt to repair the roof of a store in a work that shows this object in the background, while it was also depicted in Fine Wind . The || Leopold Senghor led one of this country’s colonies after its independence, and the Evian Accords were signed to help an African nation gain independence from this country. For 10 points, what European nation colonized such nations as Cote d’Ivoire? ']
['Kazuo Ishiguro ', ' Tensions between the Jola people and one of this country’s colonies were prevalent along a contested region known as the Casamance. Gillermo Pontecorvo dramatized the independence between this country and one of its colonies, also the site of Harkis units. One colony of this country contained the so-called “Door of No Return” while the OAS had a goal of negating independence from another of this country’s holdings . || Hailsham. A novel by this author takes its title from a Judy Bridgewater song, while in another novel, the butler Stevens takes a journey across the countryside to visit Ms. Kenton. For 10 points, name this author who penned Never Let Me Go and The Remains of the Day . ']
['human middle/inner ear  ', ' The protagonist of a novel by this author attempts to save a boy’s blue polo shirt while he stomps in the mud during a football match. A character in another novel by this author fails to tell Reginald Cardinal about the “facts of life” after receiving a letter from Mrs. Benn. A woman named Madame cries while watching a girl dance with a pillow in a novel by this author set at a school named || balance. Hair cells are pushed against the tectorial membrane in this structure during mechanoreception.The malleus, incus, and stapes, which are three small bones in this structure, transmit vibrations. For 10 points, name this organ responsible for hearing. ']
['George S(mith) Patton Jr. ', ' In humans, small organs in this structure called the utricle and saccule contain small calcium carbonate grains called statoliths. The eustachian tube of this structure can be opened with the Valsalva maneuver. This structure's vestibular system contains three semicircular canals for detection of rotational acceleration and thus || Douglas MacArthur to disperse the Bonus Army. This commander, the first to reach Messina with his Seventh Army, was relieved of his duty for nearly a year after slapping two shell-shocked soldiers. For 10 points, name this American general who was known as “Old Blood and Guts.” ']
['Brazil ', ' This man was relieved of his military governorship of Bavaria after his controversial comparisons between Nazis, Republicans, and Democrats. This man placed fifth in the first modern Olympic pentathlon in 1912. After leading the capture of Casablanca during Operation Torch, this man helped raise the morale of the II Corps, years after he was ordered by || distinct patterns. The Marajoa culture was based on a namesake island in this country’s state of Para, while a river in it was so named because of the fierce female warriors which were encountered. For 10 points, name this country which contains most of the Amazon rainforest. ']
['Scott Joplin ', ' The Cerrado toad is the namesake for a critically endangered savannah region located in this country. The origins of a city near the ruins of Kuhikugu in this country was sought by explorer Percy Fawcett and eventually was given the epithet “Z.” The Yanomami tribe lives in a region located in this country, who are known for painting their faces in || Red River, and composer James Scott based his works off the style this man invented. This composer of the opera Treemonisha commemorated a club in Sedalia Missouri with standards such as “The Entertainer.” For 10 points, name this African American composer nicknamed the “King of Ragtime.” ']
['Clovis I  ', ' A popular work by this composer opens with the melody D E C A B G  before repeating it an octave lower. A work created by this man uses many “stop time” intervals where the performer is required to stamp his/her feet on the ground. A man named Zodzerick sings “A Bag of Luck” to the title character in an opera this man set in two towns set across the || Salic Law. This man was baptized in Reims on Christmas Day 508, having been heavily encouraged by his wife, Saint Clothilde. For 10 points, name this first Christian King of the Franks, the founder of the Merovingian Dynasty. ']
['“ An Occurrence At Owl Creek Bridge ” ', ' This leader was named consul by Byzantine Emperor Anastasius I after he incorporated the region of Aquitaine into his kingdom. Following the Battle of Soissons, this leader was famously begged by Saint Remigius to return a vase he stole. This man succeeded his father Childeric I, and he passed a legal code that excluded women from holding property. That code was the || driftwood before returning to his plantation. This story describes a journey through which a man dodges Union bullets to escape his crime, only to find out that he had received a “stunning blow on the neck.” For 10 points, name this story about Peyton Farquar and the title structure, penned by Ambrose Bierce. ']
['Battle of Bunker Hill  ', ' In this story, a character who had not been covered with a bandage on his head decides to look at his “unsteadfast footing.” One man in this story looks at the pattern of constellations in the sky after realizing that an increasing sound was the “ticking of his watch.” In this story, the protagonist eventually obsesses over a great quantity of || Gage. At thisbattle, one commander legendarily ordered to not “fire until you see the whites of their eyes”. For 10 points, name this 1775 Revolutionary War battle which was ironically fought on Breed’s Hill. ']
['The Planets (accept Gustav Holst's Opus 32 ; "Holst" is not needed after it is read) ', ' One combatant in this battle was celebrated in a poem stating “Sturdy and brave as his knighted sires, who for centuries kept their altar fires”, which was titled “Seth Pomeroy’s Ride”. After repeatedly proclaiming “I hope I shall die up to my knees in blood!”, Joseph Warren died in this battle. William Prescott constructed a defensive redoubt at this battle, which resulted in the dismissal of Thomas || col legno ostinato in 5/4 (five-four) time in the first movement of this piece, whose "Mystic" movement ends with an offstage female chorus fading away, while another movement of this piece is subtitled "Bringer of Jollity". For 10 points, name this work by Gustave Holst with movements representing astrological entities such as Mars and Jupiter. ']
['Claude Levi-Strauss (prompt on Strauss ) ', ' A book by Alan Leo is a probable influence for this piece, and it was originally titled "Seven Pieces for Large Orchestra". The composer of this work originally scored its final movement with a single organ. Its second movement opens with a horn solo playing the notes F, G, A-flat, B-flat. The strings play a || incest taboo and family dynamics, Elementary Structure of Kinship. For 10 points, name this French structural anthropologist, who compared primitive and civilized cultures in The Savage Mind. ']
['Song Dynasty  ', ' This thinker repeatedly discussed the ‘exchange of women’ between families as a social structure and alliance forger common to all cultures. A series of four food-themed essays about similar South American myths like “Honey and Ashes” are in his Mythologiques, and he discarded totemism for a theory about bricoleur societies. He sought to extend the rigid, logical theories of Ferdinand de Saussure to anthropology, most notably with his book about the || Southern period of this dynasty. The compass, moveable-type, and gunpowder were all pioneered during this dynasty, which came to an end at the hands of Kublai Khan. For 10 points, name this Chinese dynasty that was succeeded by the Mongol Yuan dynasty. ']
['quantization  ', ' This dynasty’s first emperor overthrew Guo Zongxun after a prophet allegedly saw two suns in combat. Zhang Zeduan painted Along the River During the Qingming Festival in this dynasty, during which Zhu Xi helped pioneer Neo-Confucianism. During this dynasty, Kaifeng was sacked by the Jirchen in the Jingkang Incident, forcing the capital to be moved to Hangzhou and beginning the || blackbody radiation. To explain an observation of spectral lines, Bohr's model of the atom introduced energy levels with this property. For 10 points, name this property of only being at some levels, like the heights of stairs on a staircase instead of a ramp. ']
['Flannery O’Connor ', ' Energy of a standing wave confined to a finite area must have this property by the confinement principle. The allowed values of n gives this property to the system in a formula that features the difference between two terms of 1 over n squared, calculates wavelength, and is named for Rydberg. Plank proposed energy had this property when studying || leg. In addition to “Good Country People,” another of this author's stories features the restaurant owner Red Sammy, and eventually climaxes when a Floridian criminal named the Misfit ends the life of a Grandmother. For 10 points, name this southern Gothic author of “A Good Man is Hard to Find.” ']
['Sweden ', ' In a story by this author, one character stands before a mirror and puts a new hat on while another character waits how “Saint Sebastian” would; that story takes its title from a work by Pierre de Chardin. In another story by this author, a salesman who keeps liquor and pornographic content in a hollowed out version of the bible steals Joy Hopewell’s prosthetic || Gustav I Vasa, who had converted to Lutheranism and seized church property to fund this country’s namesake war of liberation, a rebellion in which this country seceded from the Kalmar Union. For 10 points, name this country in which Christian I was defeated by forces under this country’s regent Sten Sture the Elder outside of Stockholm. ']
['Vancouver , British Columbia ', ' In one rebellion in this country, one man set to be deposed as regent was backed by peasant forces defeated in the battle of Rotebro by a later king of this country, after having earlier defeated that man’s father at the battle of Brunkeberg. A later revolt in this country’s province of Småland occurred after one king’s namesake reduction and was led by Nils Dacke. That king of this country was || Stanley Park. The Fraser River runs through this city, connected by tram to the town of Whistler. The 2010 Winter Olympics were held in this city opposite the Pacific facing Victoria. For 10 points, name this Canadian city, the capital of British Columbia. ']
['Miss Julie ', ' George Mckay built a seventy meter long suspension bridge overlooking the Capilano River, which is near this city. One can find Jericho beach in this city’s neighborhood of Kitsilano, while the North Shore mountains dominate the skyline of it. This city, located along the Burrard Inlet, contains a famous “steam clock” in its neighborhood of Gastown, which lies next to an area known as || Como with Kristine, and the valet, Jean, but the arrival of The Count ruins the dream and eventually causes this character to contemplate suicide using a razor. For 10 points, name this title woman of an August Strindberg play. ']
['Diego Rivera  The second clue is referring to Dream of a Sunday Afternoon at Alameda Park and the following clue is about the “Detroit Industry” murals. ', ' This character claims that “Oh, All boys steal apples” and picks off many syringas while imagining herself trapped on a pillar of great height. This woman tells another character that she is not afraid of blood when he beheads her pet canary named Serena, and earlier a cook kills her dog Diana with a poisonous concoction. The play named after this character shows her striving to open a Hotel at Lake || River Rouge Plant. A depiction of Vladimir Lenin caused Nelson Rockefeller to destroy one of this man’s works which shows a man nervously operating the title location. For 10 points, name this Mexican muralist of Man at the Crossroads , the husband of Frida Kahlo. ']
['string s  ', ' Jeremy Bentham called these things "nonsense on stilts" while Rousseau stated that the origin of these things is the agreement made when exiting the "state of nature." Libertarians focus on the distinction between non-interference and entitlement, or the "positive" and || searches in this data type. While this data type is length-prefixed in Pascal, in C, this data type is often null-terminated. This data type is added together in concatenation. Find and replace algorithms act on, for 10 points, what sequences of characters? ']
['A Clockwork Orange ', ' The   Boyer–Moore and KMP algorithms search this data type. These entities tend to use double quotes as delimiters and a backslash as an escape character. Regular expressions specify || F. Alexander. P.R. Deltoid often visits the protagonist of this novel, who is subjected to the Ludovico Technique and subsequently suffers from listening to Beethoven. The Korova Milk bar is a frequent hangout of Alex and his droogs in, for 10 points, what novel by Anthony Burgess? ']
['State of California ', ' One character in this work works at a controlled food market called Statemart while her husband works at a place named dyworks, and the protagonist of this work frequently recalls an article that states, “IT WAS THE DEVIL THAT WAS ABROAD.” A man named Dim fights the protagonist of this novel, the title of which is taken from a manuscript written by the writer || recall election. This state has the highest homeless population in the US. This state's politicians include Dianne Feinstein, Gavin Newsom, and Nancy Pelosi. For 10 points, name this state whose most populous city is Los Angeles. ']
['Republic of Finland and the USSR  ', ' An encampment in this state's neighborhood of Little Tokyo was fenced and relocated before its residents could secure access to the Homekey program. A senator from this state had her name stripped from an elementary school after having defended the display of a Confederate flag. A politician in this state who appointed Alex Padilla as senator defeated Kevin Paffrath and Larry Elder in a 2021 || Continuation War. That country was unable to penetrate the other country’s Mannerheim Line during the Winter War, which began two years earlier. For 10 points, name these two countries which were connected by ferry from the cities of Leningrad and Helsinki. ']
['Jean Sibelius ', ' Two answers required . Soldiers loyal to one of these two countries primarily fought against the other in the Heimosodat, or “Kinship wars.” One of these two countries gained independence from the other under the guidance of Pehr Svinhufvud, while the other country retook the Petsamo region after a 1944 Armistice. One of these nation’s foreign ministers names a weapon used in the || D minor. One piece by this composer uses two English horns to depict the title bird, and he adapted many of his country’s folklorein works such as The Lemminkainen Suite and “The Swan of Tuonela.” For 10 points, name this composer of Finlandia . ']
['Cairo , Egypt  ', ' This composer’s second symphony begins with the violins playing an F sharp, G, A melody on the strings leading to a finale that begins with the notes D, E, F sharp.  This man's third symphony repeatedly makes use of the C-F sharp tritone, while a horn theme in his fifth symphony has led it to be nicknamed for a bird. Donald Tovey famously critiqued a movement in this composer's only Violin Concerto in || Midaq Alley, is the setting of a novel centering on Said Mahran titled The Thief and the Dogs. An author chronicled the life of the Gawad family in this city over a course of three books including Palace Walk and Sugar Street . For 10 points, name this setting of a trilogy of novels by Naguib Mafhouz, the capital of Egypt. ']
['Ferdinand Magellan ', ' In this city, a cripple maker helps a quack dentist steal golden teeth from dead bodies. A novel set in this city sees one character anger his father by publishing an article about Darwin. Nur and Tarzan aid the protagonist of a novel set in this city where a woman breaks her collarbone while returning home from worship. This city, which contains || Mactan island. The flagship in this man’s final voyage was a carrack funded by King Charles V, called the Trinidad, and, following this man’s death, Juan Sebastián Elcano completed his final voyage. For 10 points, name this Portuguese explorer whose death was declared a holiday in the Philippines, and whose final voyage led to the first circumnavigation of the world. ']
['field potential s  ', ' This man’s death was documented by a Venetian man who served as supernumerary, Antonio Pigafetta. Notes from this man’s final voyage to translate the Cebuano language, which was likely spoken by Rajah Humabon, as well as this man’s killer, Datu Lapulapu of || move when placed on a sloping line in these diagrams. A ball on a two-dimensional hill is intuitively similar to this type of diagram. For 10 points, name these graphs of a quantity often contrasted with kinetic energy. ']
['Fountain s  ', ' An equation defining one of these constructs subtracts two terms containing sigma over r. An equation of one of these constructs contains terms raised to the 6th and 12th powers to model a pair of interacting molecules and is named for Lennard-Jones. The derivative or gradient on one of these mathematical constructs gives the force on a particle, meaning particles will || Obelisk can be found at the center of another artwork of this type commissioned by Innocent X  that depicts figures including the Rio de La Plata and the Nile, known as the Four Rivers. For 10 points, the “Trevi” is an example of what water spewing sculptures? ']
['Battle of Shiloh  ', ' The creator of an artwork of this type supposedly did not want a barber’s sign obscuring it and subsequently placed it behind an “Ace of Cups” because of its resemblance to a tarot card. A poem that contains the line “A crooked trumpet bears” inspired another work of this type that depicts Glaucus and two dolphins in front of the central figure holding a conch shell. An Egyptian || “Hornet’s Nest” in this battle and P. G. T. Beauregard took command of the Confederate Army of Mississippi following Albert Sidney Johnston’s death. For 10 points, name this Tennessee Civil War Battle where Ulysses S. Grant was victorious. ']
['Father (Accept Daddy or other clear knowledge equivalents to Dad or Father ) ', ' Following this battle, a skirmish resulted in Nathan Bedford Forrest being shot in the “Fallen Timbers” incident. The losing side at this battle attempted to drive the victors into the Owl Creek swamps by launching a surprise attack from their base at Corinth, though Don Carlos Buell reinforced the victors soon after. Benjamin Prentiss and W. H. L. Wallace defended a sunken road known as the || heart” and “I may be a bit of a Jew” in that poem addressed to a character of this type which open s “You do not do, you do not do.” For 10 points, Otto Plath was of what relative to poet Sylvia? ']
['Holocaust Memorials [prompt on partial answer. Generously accept Holocaust Museums , and accept obvious synonyms for Memorials ; prompt on World War II Memorials or anything vaguely referring to the Holocaust ; accept memorials to Concentration Camps or Holocaust Genocide Sites but DO NOT accept or prompt on a specific concentration camp ) ', ' A character of this type is the main subject of a poem that mentions how the author scales “little ladders with glue pots and pails of lysol” while describing that figure as glued. Another poem titled for a character ofthis type depicts the “beautiful Nauset” and a “Taroc pack” while imagining certain locations such as the “Freakish Atlantic” and the “Snows of Tyrol.” The speaker claims “There’s a stake in your fat black || Vashem and sites commemorating the Secret Annex serve, for 10 points, what purpose that memorializes a World War II mass genocide against Jews? ']
['Republic of Peru [accept República del Perú ', ' Description Acceptable : One place in present day Budapest designed for this purpose simply consists of shoes stacked upon the riverbank, while another one of these places in the same city is an abstract version of the Weeping Willow. Another location located in Berlin specifically designed for this purpose consists of over 2,000 concrete slabs of different heights, while one of these locations in Jerusalem contains a "Hall of Names" within its design by architect Moshe Safdie. Yad || geoglyphs depicting Condors and Herons. The Moche culture developed in this nation home to another culture led by Sapa such as Atahualpa before being conquered by conquistadors. For 10 points, name this nation where the Inca developed around Cuzco and Lima. ']
['Double Bass ', ' A site in this modern day country contains remnants of what was to be named “The largest single mass child sacrifice in history.” That civilization based in this country had waters from the Tschudi river supplying its capital of Chan Chan. A culture from this country based in Sipan was known for pottery depicting exaggerated sexual acts, and another civilization in this country was known for || Faubus.” A player of this instrument composed albums such as Pithecanthropus Erectus and one titled for his last name “Ah um,” named Charles Mingus. For 10 points, What jazz instrument is often played by plucking strings upright? ']
['Taiping Rebellion  ', ' T ommy Flanagan wrote a track named after a player of this instrument which puts his first name after the word “Big.” Many high pitched solos characterize the piece “Bird Calls,” which was written by a player of this instrument. An album written by a player of this instrument contains a solo for it that begins its first track, “Better Git it in Your Soul,” and later contains a piece named for a Governor, “Fables for || Gordon’s Ever Victorious Army. The leader of this event, who aimed to set up a capital at Nanjing, claimed he was the younger brother of Jesus. For 10 points, name this failed rebellion against the Qing Dynasty led by Hong Xiuquan. ']
['cytosine and guanine  ', ' After being captured, one leader of this event named Shi Dakai sacrificed himself in exchange for the safety of his soldiers, and was executed by slowly cutting off parts of his body. Troops in this conflict were known as “hair rebels” for not wearing the traditional male hairstyle in the nation this event took place in. The Hakka ethnic group comprised most of the rebel forces in this conflict, who were opposed by Charles || Huntington's disease. These two molecules formthree hydrogen bonds with each other, and they are a purine and pyrimidine. For 10 points, name these two nucleotides that are not adenine or thymine. ']
['V.S Naipaul ', ' These two molecules are infrequently seen adjacently since one of them spontaneously deaminates, so they are generally seen in conserved "islands." These two molecules increase T-sub-m, or melting temperature, because of greater hybridization affinity. These two molecules are the first and third in a series of triplets found in the polyglutamine tract of the gene mutated in || Paul Theroux. Salim tries to escape “Big Man” in one of this author’s novels and in this author’s most famous novel, the protagonist eats too many overripe bananas and marries into the Tulsi family to gain property. For 10 points, name this Trinidadian author of A Bend in the River and A House for Mr. Biswas. ']
['doctor (or physician or medical student ; Accept obvious equivalents) ', ' The Hellenic Club is the setting of a squash game in a work by this author and the Youth Guard is brought into forced labor by a man in the same novel by this author. One character in his novels is influenced to study in America following the brutal murder of a mask-collecting priest and this author had a 1996 conflict with || Paul Gachet, a member of this profession, was the subject of two Van Gogh portraits, and Aris Kindt stands out in a painting titled for one of these people named Nicholas Tulp. For 10 points, many paintings depict people of what profession practicing medicine? ']
['Armenian Genocide  ', ' A man in a work depicting people of this type presents himself in the umbra mortis style while another figure in that work was pointed out on having an R-shaped navel. A work depicting a person of this type shows him holding a foxglove plant as he rests on a table. In another work depicting people of this type, a man with a goatee looks at the artist leaning on a railway in the background. || Red Sunday and was opposed in the city of Van. This event was primarily organized by Enver Pasha and saw the forced march of hundreds of thousands through the Syrian desert. For 10 points, name this genocide in which the Turkish government deliberately killed up to 1,500,000 of a certain ethnic group. ']
['right  ', ' Some of this event’s leaders were assassinated in Operation Nemesis after its completion. The Russian victory in the Battle of Sarikamish preceded this action, which was followed a few months later by the passage of the Tehcir Law. Henry Morgenthau, Sr. was unable to coax the United States into intervening in this event, which began on || "negative" types of these things. A "Universal Declaration of ‘these things’" was adopted by the U.N. General Assembly in 1948 and the Natural Law is cited as a source of the "inalienable" type of these things. For 10 points, name these things which according to John Locke include life, liberty, and property. ']
['To Kill a Mockingbird ', '> The climax of this novel sees an argument over whether one character cut a chiffarobe block for another character.  After one character in this work destroys the morphine addict Mrs. Dubose’s flowers, he is forced to read to her everyday until she dies.  The father of the protagonist of this work is described as || “One Shot” after shooting a rabid dog named Tim Johnson . The black man Tom Robinson is falsely convicted of the rape of Mayella Ewell in this novel, which reveals the racism in the town of Maycomb, Alabama.  For 10 points, name this novel centering on Scout Finch, written by Harper Lee. ']
['Republic of Guatemala  ', '> 2. This country was home to the Kaqchikel and the K’iche’, who were conquered by Pedro de Alvarado. A later leader of this country who embraced the ‘guns and beans’ campaign to combat insurgents, Efraín Rios Montt, was later convicted of genocide against this country’s indigenous people. Another leader embraced Decree 900, an agrarian reform law opposed by the || United Fruit Company, but was later overthrown by the CIA in operation PBSUCCESS. This country’s indigenous people were once led by Pakal the Great and built the city of Tikal. For 10 points, name this Central American nation formerly led by Jacobo Arbenz and home to the Mayans. ']
['Dorothea Lange ', '> 3 . One of this artist's works shows three Egyptian women bringing food to the dead and was inspired by her trip to the Middle East, and collaborated with Prickle Jones to depict the destruction of a Virginia Landmark. Another work by this artist shows a man nervously looking away from a crowd of people while his arms cover up a cup, and this artist also depicted a solemn Japanese family awaiting internment at || Manzanar Internment Camp. This photographer of White Angel Breadline showed two children behind a nervously looking Florence Owens Thompson in her most famous photograph. For 10 points, name this female photographer of Migrant Mother . ']
['Muammar Mohammed Abu Minyar Gaddafi  ', '> 4. This leader may have been the target of an assassination attempt that brought down Itavia Flight 870. This man moved into the Bab al-Azizia barracks after the success of the 1 September Revolution. This man ordered a jihad against Switzerland following the arrest of his son Hannibal, and he was the target of Operation El Dorado Canyon after he bombed a West Berlin || discotheque. This leader changed the flag of his country to an all-green banner, and he orchestrated the Lockerbie bombing. A 2011 civil war caused by the Arab Spring revolts brought down, for 10 points, what Libyan leader, who outlined his ideology in the Green Book? ']
['Colorado River  ', '> 5. A project that moves water from this river to the Front Range Urban Corridor is known as the Grand Ditch. This river, which begins at the La Poudre Pass, is joined by the Gunnison and Gila Rivers. Changes in the flow of this river hundreds of years ago created the Salton Sea. This river flows through || Yuma, where it makes its only international border crossing. On its journey towards the Gulf of California, water from this river iscollected for hydroelectric use at Lake Mead. For 10 points, name this American river that flows through the Hoover Dam and which created the Grand Canyon. ']
['Liberty Leading the People  ', '> 6. One figure standing on the left side of this work legendarily resembled either the theater director Etienne Arago or the artist himself. The leftmost figure in this painting has his hand and a saber on a pile of rocks, while another man depicted in this painting is presented with only one sock. A figure wears a cholet || handkerchief across his sash in this painting, while a boy with two pistols stands next to the title Phrygian Cap wearing figure. That woman leads others along the way by waving a giant tricolor flag above. For 10 points, name this Eugene Delacroix painting that commemorates the July Revolution. ']
['decapitation  ', '> 7. Description acceptable. In the Ramayana, Lakshmana uses the Indrastra to perform this action on Ravana’s son, Meghana, and an incident involving an infinite pillar of fire resulted in a god doing this action to Brahma. One character does this action to another character after receiving a girdle from Lord Berlitak and exchanging kisses for items such as a boar. Because of his ultimate devotion to Paravati, Ganesha was subjected to this type of || punishment from the destroyer god Shiva, while Gawain eventually enacted this form of punishment on the Green Knight. For 10 points, name this form of killing which involves chopping off one’s head. ']
['United States Secretary of State ', '> 8. One holder of this position helped resolve a dispute involving ships such as the USS San Jacinto . The longest serving holder of this position was unable to stop the SS Quanza from disembarking due to the efforts of Eleanor Roosevelt. A Nobel Peace Prize laureate who held this position organized a program that replaced the Morgenthau Plan, while another holder of this position controversially won the Nobel Prize for organizing the Paris || Peace Accords with Lê Đức Thọ. The last holder of this position was previously the CIA Director and succeeded Rex Tillerson. For 10 points, name this cabinet position, most recently held by Mike Pompeo and Anthony Blinken. ']
['mass spec trometry  ', '> 9. In one method, analytes are prepared for this technique by collisions with many neutral gas molecules. Another preparation step in this technique can be achieved by blasting proteins with a laser after placing it on a matrix and is known as MALDI. That method is often paired with a "time of flight" type of this technique. When done || twice, this technique is called "tandem." After ionizing them, this technique measures the deflection of molecules through an electric field. For 10 points, name this technique that measures the mass to charge ratio of fragments of a molecule. ']
['(Henry) Graham Greene ', '> 10. In a novel by this author, a character who eats a lump of sugar at the mouth of an Indian Boy near a grave starts a fight with a small dog in a deserted house for a bone. Dr. Hasselbacher is murdered in another novel by this author whose protagonist starts a relationship with his secretary Beatrice Severn. The protagonist befriends the dentist Mr. Tench and is taught morse code by Coral Fellows in a novel by this author. This creator of || James Wormwold depicted the Mestizo’s betrayal of a whiskey priest in a novel featuring anti-catholic authorities in Mexico. For 10 points, name this British author of Our Man in Havana and The Power and the Glory . ']
['Republic of Poland  ', '>11. This present-day country was invaded by foreign leaders like Charles X Gustav during the Second Northern War. This nation hosted the signing of the May 3rd Constitution, which was opposed by the Targowica Confederation. This country’s Stanisław II Augustus was its final monarch, who supported an uprising led by a major general who was instrumental at the Battle of Saratoga. That man was || Tadeusz Kościuszko. The uprising of the Bar Confederation in this country eventually led to the Sejm ratifying its First Partition in 1773.. For 10 points, name this country whose Sigismund III moved its capital from Kraków to Warsaw. ']
['Piano Concerto s  ', '> 12. Mozart’s ninth and twenty-second pieces of this type, both in E-flat major, feature a minuet in A-flat interrupting the final Rondo movement. One work in this genre begins with a descending flourish following a timpani roll. That is Edvard Grieg’s long A || minor piece of this type. Rachmaninoff’s four pieces in this genre are considered to be among the most difficult, especially the second. They usually contain three movements, the first of which ends in an improvised cadenza. For 10 points, name this type of work for a namesake solo instrument and accompanying ensemble, exemplified by Beethoven’s fifth and final one, Emperor. ']
['Caesar Marcus Aurelius Antoninus Augustus  ', '> 13. Correspondence between this man and his tutor Fronto tell of his apprenticeship under his predecessor and adoptive father. Upon his ascension to the throne, this man reduced the silver content of the denarius. During this man’s reign, an invasion by Ballabar was part of the Marcomannic Wars. His general Cassius would later sack Selucia and || Ctesiphon. Cassius’s campaign saw the first appearance of the Antonine Plague, which would go on to kill this man’s co-emperor Lucius Verus. For 10 points, name this last of the Five Good Emperors, who was succeeded by his son Commodus and wrote the Meditations on Stoic philosophy . ']
['grasses  ', '> This plant family's PACMAD clade contains most C4 fixation plants. Animals that primarily consume members of this plant family contain an omasum and abomasum, produce a portion of food in need of further chewing called cud, have four-chambered stomachs, and are called ruminants. Members of this family are dominant on || steppes and savannas. Cereals, such as wheat and corn, are part of this plant family that also includes bamboo. For 10 points, name this family of plants found on lawns that whoever converted this tossup should probably touch. ']
['Jorge Luis Borges ', '> 15. In a poem by this author, he mentions the time “when the sorrows lays us low” and describes “the taste of fruit / the taste of water.” This author of “Shinto” wrote a story in which an object has the power to create obsession when an individual glances at it. In another story by this author, Scharlach kills a detective named Lonnrot, who was investigating three murders at the time. This author of “Death || and the Compass” penned a story in which a point from the basement of Carlos Daneri allows one to see every point in the universe, titled “The Aleph.” For 10 points, Name this Argentine author whose stories are collected in Ficciones . ']
['Marc Zakharovich Chagall ', '> 16. This artist portrayed a musician in a purple suit floating over multiple houses in The Green Violinist . This painter depicted himself and his wife, Bella Rosenfeld, sharing a kiss while floating in a work painted a few weeks before their marriage. In addition to The Birthday, this artist painted a work which sees a || yellow church flanked by two upside down houses, while a woman in a blue skirt plays a violin next to a man with a scythe. In that work by this artist, the two central figures, a man colored green and a lamb, stare into each other’s eyes. For 10 points, name this Belarusian painter of I and the Village. ']
['American Pie ', '>17. This song inquires whether the listener has “ faith in God above” before asking whether music can “save your mortal soul.” The composer of this song may reference Charles Manson after describing the assassinations of John F. Kennedy and Lee Harvey Oswald by claiming that “the courtroom was adjourned” and that “no verdict was returned.” After recalling how there was “bad || news on the doorstep,” this song laments about the deaths of the Big Bopper, Richie Valens, and Buddy Holly on February 3, 1959. For 10 points, which Don McLean song discusses “the day the music died”? ']
['Tao te Ching  ', '> 18 . This text's "mysterious female" can allow someone to access its title concept, and this text notes that "true words aren't eloquent and eloquent words aren't true." This work can also be called the Sutra or the "5,000-character classic" and it's first line states that the title concept can't be its || eternal self if it can be spoken. This text advocates for inaction or "wu wei" and along with the Zhuangzi, it forms the foundation for the philosophical school of Taoism. For 10 points, name this Chinese classic credited to the "Old Master" Laozi. ']
['George W(ilcken) Romney or (Willard) Mitt Romney  ', '> 19. A man with this surname served as Richard Nixon’s first Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, though he resigned his post shortly after confronting the victims of Hurricane Agnes in Pennsylvania. Another man with this surname was CEO of Bain Capital and lost his first Senate election to a five-time incumbent, Ted Kennedy. One man with this surname claimed he was || brainwashed in Vietnam; that man’s son was the only Republican Senator to support the impeachment of President Trump. For 10 points, what surname is shared by a Governor of Michigan and his son, the Republican nominee for the 2012 United States Presidential Election? ']
['Willy Loman  ', '> 20. One character declares that for this man, "Attention, attention must be paid," and later Letta and Mrs. Forsythe abandon this character and his two companions at a particular restaurant. This man discusses how a relative "walked in the jungle and came out rich" while reminiscing the good old days of Dave Singleman with his boss, || Howard Wagner. This man's son burns a pair of sneakers after failing a math test, ending his football career. Linda, Biff, and Happy, all constitute the family that this man heads in the drama he appears in. For 10 points, name this man who commits suicide by crashing a car at the end of an Arthur Miller play. ']
