1. This country’s 1963 revolution is sometimes called the Ramadan Revolution and was followed by Ali Salih al-Sa’di’s National Guard killing suspected dissidents. This country was established as a republic after the July 14 Revolution in 1958, which led to the deaths of Prime Minister Nuri al-Said [sah-EED] and King Faisal [FY-sahl] II. During the 1980s, this country fought a brutal war with Iran that ended in a stalemate and during which this country used chemical weapons against Iran and some of its own people. In 1990, this country annexed Kuwait, provoking a U.S. invasion. For 10 points, name this country that was led by Saddam Hussein until the U.S. deposed Hussein in 2003. ANSWER: (Republic of) Iraq [or Jumhuriyat al-Iraq]
2. The end of this short story refers to a “common wish of all hen-pecked husbands” and states that the title character tells this story to “every stranger that arrived at Mr. Doolittle’s hotel”. The end of this story also states that whenever there is a thunderstorm in the Catskills, people imagine it is Henry Hudson playing nine-pins. Earlier in this story, the title character is surprised to see a picture of George Washington where there used to be a picture of King George III. For 10 points, name this story written by Washington Irving about a man who sleeps for 20 years. ANSWER: “Rip Van Winkle”
3. The use of these devices is sometimes described by the adjective “isopycnic” [“ice-oh-picnic”], which originally referred to surfaces of constant density inside a fluid. One of these devices is used to find the packed cell volume of blood. The Zippe [ZIP-uh] type of these devices is sometimes regulated by international treaties because it is used to enrich uranium. The basket type of these devices is used to process cane sugar and is good at separating liquids from solids. These devices are named after a fictitious force. For 10 points, name these devices that separate mixtures according to density by spinning quickly. ANSWER: centrifuges [SENT-rih-fyooj-ez]
4. This crop is the main ingredient in the middle of the Italian food arancini [ah-rahn-CHEE-nee]. In Mexico but not in Europe, this crop is used to make a drink called horchata [or-CHAH-tah]. This crop is combined with a variety of different foods to make jambalaya [jum-buh-LY-ah]. The bran layer of this food is often removed, changing its color and making it a worse source of thiamine [“THIGH”-uh-min]. Though this crop is cultivated throughout the world, over 90% of it is grown in Asia. For 10 points, name this brown or white crop that is grown in paddies. ANSWER: rice [or Oryza sativa]
5. Much of this novel consists of diary and journal entries, though one chapter is two cuttings from “The Dailygraph” describing the wreck of the ship Demeter [dih-MEE-tur], in which the captain’s body is tied to the wheel. A note at the end of this novel states that two characters had a son who was born on the anniversary of Quincey Morris’s death. As Morris died, he noticed that the scar on Mina’s [MEE-nuh’z] forehead had gone away. Earlier in this novel, Lucy Westenra died despite Abraham Van Helsing’s attempts to protect her with garlic. For 10 points, name this novel by Bram Stoker about a vampire. ANSWER: Dracula
6. In the 1870s Alfred Beach demonstrated a proof of concept for a subway system based on this technology. This technology's first recorded use was in a barbershop mirror designed by Ctesbius [tess-EEB-ee-us] of Alexandria. A McDonalds in Edina, Minnesota that closed in 2011 uniquely employed this technology. Joseph Latimer Clark's system for communicating between the London Stock Exchange and the International Telegraphy Company 720 feet away made use of this kind of technology, which was also employed in the Parisian intracity mail system for over a century starting in 1868. A Greek word for "breath" or "wind" names, for 10 points, what method of moving objects using compressed air and vacuum, such as in drive-through bank teller "tubes?" ANSWER: pneumatics or pneumatic tube systems
7. Shortly before dying in 1861, this politician stated “Every man must be for the United States or against it. There can be no neutrals in this war; only patriots and traitors.” Earlier, this person stated “the people of a Territory can, by lawful means, exclude slavery from their limits prior to the formation of a State constitution”, which became known as the Freeport Doctrine. This senator overturned part of the Missouri Compromise by writing and sponsoring the Kansas–Nebraska Act. This person finished fourth in electoral votes as the Northern Democrat in the election of 1860. For 10 points, name this politician who, in 1858, took part in a series of debates against Abraham Lincoln. ANSWER: Stephen A(rnold) Douglas
8. Near the beginning of this opera, two of the characters sing “E soffitto e pareti” [ay soh-FEET-toh ay pah-RAY-tee] while inspecting a new house. In Act 2 of this opera, the female lead sings “Un bel dì, vedremo [vay-DRAY-moh]” while imagining seeing smoke on the horizon. In this opera, a man enters a marriage under the assumption he will be able to get a divorce, and the man is surprised to learn much later that the marriage produced a son. That man is U.S. Navy Lieutenant Pinkerton. The wife, who uses a sword to kill herself near the end of this opera, is Cio-Cio-san [cho cho sahn]. For 10 points, name this Giacomo Puccini [JAH-koh-moh poot-CHEE-nee] opera that is set in Japan. ANSWER: Madame Butterfly [or Madama Butterfly]
9. These organs are the primary source of the angiotensin [an-jee-oh-TEN-sin]-converting enzyme. The collapse of these organs is called atelectasis [at-uh-LEK-tuh-siss] and can be caused by a lack of surfactants. These organs have oblique fissures on both sides but a horizontal fissure only on the right side, so there are three lobes on the right one of these organs and two on the left. These organs are in pleural [“plural”] sacs. These organs expand when the diaphragm contracts. The artery going to this organ carries deoxygenated [dee-“oxygen-ate-id”] blood. This organ has many tiny structures called alveoli [al-VEE-uh-“lie”] that take in oxygen. For 10 points, name these organs of the respiratory system. ANSWER: lungs
10. Arthur Pigou [pih-goo] wrote a book on his theory of this concept, which inspired John Maynard Keynes’ [“canes”] to reply “We are, as I have said, one equation short.” Okun’s [OH-kun’z] law gives a linear relationship between the rate of this concept and a country’s production. The concept of a non-accelerating inflation rate of this concept is now preferred by economists over the idea of it having a “natural” rate. The frictional form of this concept is often based on voluntary instability, while the structural form occurs when there is a mismatch between skills and labor market requirements. For 10 points, name this concept in which people are looking for work but do not have a job. ANSWER: unemployment
11. This person’s name is used in the title of the posthumously collected papers written by Milman Parry, and this person is the subject of much of the second half of Albert Lord’s The Singer of Tales. The hymns named for this person, beginning with “To Dionysus [”die“-oh-NY-siss]”, praise a variety of gods. A work attributed to this writer begins with Chryses [“CRY-sees”] trying to get his daughter Chryseis [“cry-SEE-us”] back, and that work ends with the burial of Hector after King Priam [“PRY”-um] has retrieved his body. Another work attributed to this writer is about a hero’s return to his wife, Penelope. For 10 points, name this legendary ancient Greek writer credited with writing the Iliad and the Odyssey. ANSWER: Homer [or Homeros]
12. The premier of the northern part of this country was Ahmadu Bello [uh-MAH-doo BELL-oh] from 1954 until his assassination in 1966. This country’s first prime minister, Abubakar Tafawa Balewa [uh-BOO-bah-kar tuh-FAH-wuh bah-LAY-wuh], was also assassinated in 1966. Soon after that, Odumegwu Ojukwu [aw-doo-MAY-goo oh-JOOK-woo] declared that the southern part of this country was the Republic of Biafra [bee-AH-fruh]. More recently in this country, 276 girls were kidnapped in 2014 in Chibok [chee-BOHK] by the terrorist group Boko Haram. This country is the most populous country in Africa. For 10 points, name this country that in 1991 moved its capital from Lagos [LAH-gohss] to Abuja [ah-BOO-jah]. ANSWER: (Federal Republic of) Nigeria
13. The number of intersections of these geometric things equals “n choose 4”. The product of the lengths of these figures gives one side of the equation in Ptolemy’s [TOL-uh-mee’z] theorem for cyclic quadrilaterals. The number of these figures is maximized in a convex shape, in which they number one-half n times the quantity n minus 3. One of these segments is the perpendicular bisector of the other one in a kite, and these segments bisect each other in a parallelogram. For 10 points, name these entities that are not edges but connect vertices [VER-tuh-seez] of a polygon. ANSWER: diagonals
14. This god got nine servants to kill each other by throwing a whetstone in the air. He then changed himself into a snake to get to Gunnlod [“gun-LOAD”], whom he was able to seduce. This god then drank mead that was made from blood and changed himself into an eagle to escape. This god uses magic to preserve Mímir’s [MEE-mir’z] head, which he consults because it can divine the future. This god made the world with the body of Ymir [EE-mir] along with his brothers, Vili and Vé. This god is often helped by the wolves Geri [“GEAR”-ee] and Freki [FREK-ee], the ravens Huginn [HYOO-gin] and Muninn [MYOO-nin], and the eight-legged horse Sleipnir [SLAYP-neer]. For 10 points, name this husband of Frigg who oversees Valhalla. ANSWER: Odin [or Wotan]
15. A novella by this writer begins “It is a sin to write this” and is mostly set in a tunnel under the earth. In that work, this author wrote about the World Council of Scholars, which rejects a rediscovery of electricity. Another novel by this author is about the use of an alloy that is both lighter and stronger than steel and that is developed by Hank Rearden. In that novel, this author has some characters wonder “Who Is John Galt?”. Galt hacks a radio broadcast to give a speech that supports this writer’s philosophy, objectivism. For 10 points, name this author of Anthem and Atlas Shrugged. ANSWER: Ayn Rand [“eye”n rand] [or Alisa (Zinovyevna) Rosenbaum or Alice Rosenbaum or Alice O’Connor]
16. This planet’s Elysium Planitia [uh-LEE-zee-um pluh-NEE-shuh] is where the InSight lander touched down in 2018. The first craft to orbit this planet was Mariner 9 in 1971, which arrived just before Soviet orbiters. The geography of this planet includes Tharsis Bulge, which is near both its equator and a large group of canyons called Valles Marineris [VALL-uss mair-uh-NEAR-is]. This planet is also the location of our Solar System’s largest volcano, Olympus Mons. This planet’s surface is covered with iron oxide, which explains its color. This planet’s moons are Phobos and Deimos [DEE-mohss]. For 10 points, name this red planet, the fourth planet from the Sun. ANSWER: Mars
17. Narciso [nar-SEE-soh] López, who was born in Venezuela, recruited people from the United States for two failed attempts to take over what is now this country. Pierre Soulé [soo-lay] encouraged the production of a document, probably written by James Buchanan, that called for purchasing this country. That 1854 document is the Ostend Manifesto. The Spanish-American War was sparked when the U.S.S. Maine was blown up while it was in what is now this country. In 1961, President Kennedy was heavily criticized for a botched invasion of this country at the Bay of Pigs. For 10 points, name this Caribbean country where the U.S. tried to overthrow Fidel Castro. ANSWER: (Republic of) Cuba or (República de) Cuba
18. After failing to resolve issues at one of these places through mediation, the owner of these places made a blog post called "The DFEH's Misguided Lawsuit." California has alleged that one of these places in Fremont allows routine use of racial slurs and orders minority employees "segregated to the lowest levels." One of these places outside of Reno, Nevada, which is planned to be the largest building in the world by footprint, makes the Powerwall, and another in Shanghai assembles the Model 3 and Model Y. A corporate headquarters is adjacent to one of these places in Austin, Texas, which is dubbed "Gigafactory 5." For 10 points, name these places where electric vehicles are manufactured for a company led by Elon Musk. ANSWER: Tesla factories or Tesla plants [accept Gigafactories before "Gigafactory" is read]
20. One of the first actions this person took as a leader was to name Martin Crawford, Andre Roman, and John Forsyth to a peace commission that was never received. This person was eventually captured near Irwinville and held for two years, but he was never put on trial and eventually went to Canada. Leading into the Hampton Roads Conference, this person feuded with the person next in line for his job, Alexander Stephens [STEE-venz]. This person had earlier been Franklin Pierce’s secretary of War and a congressperson from Mississippi. For 10 points, name this person who appointed Robert E. Lee as his top general when this person was President of the Confederate States. ANSWER: Jefferson (Finis) Davis
21. One of these devices uses a combination of laser cooling and fountain design to achieve accuracy. That device, which uses six lasers to cool molecules to a few millionths of a degree above absolute zero, is the N.I.S.T.-F1 in Boulder, Colorado. More traditional varieties of these objects use balance wheels and resonators such as quartz crystals. Though rubidium [roo-BID-ee-um] is cheaper, the most precise modern examples of these devices use cesium [SEE-zee-um]. These objects traditionally used pendulums. For 10 points, name these devices, the analog types of which have a long hand that goes around every hour and a short hand that goes around every 12 hours. ANSWER: clocks [accept atomic clocks or timers or chronographs or chronometers or timepieces or timekeepers]
22. If this formula is used to solve a monic [MAH-nik] problem, then the denominator equals 2. The golden ratio can be found by plugging the numbers 1, −1, and −1 into this formula. This formula can be verified by using the sum and product of its solutions, and it is often derived by completing the square. This formula has a discriminant that is negative when this formula gives complex solutions. For 10 points, name this formula used to find either the x-intercepts of a parabola or the solutions to a second-degree polynomial equation. ANSWER: quadratic formula
23. In high-power circuits, the “expulsion” type of this device is used and contains boric acid to prevent arcing. This device often has metal caps at the ends of a glass tube. In household applications, this device is sometimes replaced with a penny, which is very dangerous. This device contains a wire or soldered [SAH-durd] joint that melts when it is overheated. This device is similar to a circuit breaker but cannot be reused once it blows. For 10 points, name this device designed to stop a circuit that has too much current. ANSWER: fuse
24. This statue is surrounded by stone walls that form an 11-pointed star and that used to be part of Fort Wood. Part of this statue was redesigned by Gutzon Borglum so that it now contains hundreds of pieces of tinted yellow cathedral glass. Shortly before designing the Biltmore Estate and The Breakers for the Vanderbilts, Richard Morris Hunt designed the pedestal for this statue. The framework for this statue was built by Gustave Eiffel [goo-stahf “eye”-ful], and its design is by Frédéric Auguste Bartholdi [bar-tohl-dee]. This copper sculpture shows a woman holding a book and lifting up a torch. For 10 points, name this sculpture that welcomes immigrants in New York Harbor. ANSWER: The Statue of Liberty [or Liberty Enlightening the World or La Liberté éclairant le monde]
1. In recent years, the Tian–Calvet types of these devices have been used to determine which materials should be used in batteries. These devices are not microscopes, but the differential scanning types are used to study liquid crystals and polymers [POL-uh-murz]. When these devices are used, they often contain a chemical reaction that involves enthalpy changes. Many of these devices use a liquid enclosure that can be measured, including the “bomb” type of this device. Data from these devices are often used to calculate the heat capacity of materials. For 10 points, name these devices that measure the amount of heat during a reaction. ANSWER: calorimeters [kal-uh-RIM-ih-turz] [accept microcalorimeters]
2. Six different women say something negative to this character right before she goes to Redmond College. Two of those women belong to the Wright family, which this character’s friend Diana marries into while this person is in college. As a child, this character saved Diana’s sister Minnie May’s life by giving her ipecac [IP-uh-kak] for croup [kroop]. This character was adopted by Matthew and Marilla Cuthbert, who had actually requested a boy. Once adopted, this character grows up in Avonlea [AV-un-lee] on Prince Edward Island. For 10 points, name this character in stories by Lucy Maud Montgomery who grew up on a farm called Green Gables. ANSWER: Anne Shirley [accept either; accept Anne of (the) Green Gables]
3. This person portrayed Gloria Gaines, who was the wife of the protagonist, in The Butler. This person produced and starred in the movie version of Beloved. More recently, this person hosts the television show Super Soul Sunday. This person started Harpo Productions, which produces the shows Dr. Phil, Rachael Ray, and The Dr. Oz Show. A well-known meme shows this person repeatedly saying “And you get a car!”. Until Breonna Taylor was on the cover of the September 2020 issue, this person was always on the cover of the magazine named for her. For 10 points, name this former talk-show host who formed the O.W.N. network and publishes O magazine. ANSWER: Oprah (Gail) Winfrey [accept either underlined name; accept Orpah (Gail) Winfrey]
4. This process gradually became "untamed" starting in the High Middle Ages and is now "invisible," according to a book originally titled for "Man in the Face of" this process that was published in English as "The Hour of" this process, by Philippe Ariès [fee-LEEP AH-ree-ehs]. The melodramatic "beautiful" form of this process was one replacement for its at-home "good" form in the 19th century. A Swiss psychologist wrote a book titled for this process that posits a five-stage reaction to it beginning with "denial." Elisabeth Kübler-Ross's "stages of grief" may follow, for 10 points, what event, studied by thanatologists, that may lead to ceremonies such as cremation or burial? ANSWER: death [or dying or [The Hour of] Our Death]
5. This rule provides direct justification for the most common polar coordinates distance formula. In the isosceles [“eye”-SAH-suh-leez] case, this rule can be stated by the formula “1 minus c squared over the quantity 2 b squared”. This rule is used to find either a triangle angle when the three sides are known or to find the third side of a triangle when two sides and the angle between them are known. For 10 points, name this “law” in which there is a term equal to twice the product of two side lengths times its namesake trigonometric function. ANSWER: law of cosines [accept cosine rule; do not accept or prompt on “law of sines”]
6.Virginia content question - non-Virginia tournaments may read tossup 6a instead. 6. In 1977 this facility was the site of Anton Schwarzkopf's first working "shuttle loop" design. This facility began as the twin of a Cincinnati-area location named for an "Island." In 2018 this facility removed Confederate-related names by changing the Rebel Yell to the Racer 75. Seven years earlier, rider blackouts caused a scaling back of this facility's Dale Earnhardt-themed "Giga Coaster," the Intimidator 305. A large Eiffel Tower replica is near the entrance of this facility. For 10 points, name this large theme park in Hanover County. ANSWER: Kings Dominion At VCU site: Read the above tossup and skip tossup 6a. 6a. To create the home of this family, an eight-foot wall was built by movie producers around the end of Longfellow Road in Staten Island. This family's income nominally comes from Genco Pura, an olive oil importing firm. After being tricked into leaving home by an intentional act of abuse against his sister, the acting leader of this family is killed at a toll plaza. To intimidate a movie producer, a member of this crime family leaves a severed horse's head in his bed. That consigliere [KAHN-seel-YAIR-ee], Tom Hagen, is the adopted son of this family's patriarch, played by Marlon Brando. For 10 points, Francis Ford Coppola's movie The Godfather shows downfall of Vito and rise of Michael in what fictional crime family? ANSWER: the Corleone [CORE-lee-owney] family [accept the Corleones]
7. One play by this writer begins with a character saying “Yes, I have tricks in my pocket; I have things up my sleeve.” This writer depicted that character getting yelled at after Jim says he is engaged, which disappoints Amanda and Laura. In another play by this writer, a woman tells Mitch that her first husband Allan Grey committed suicide. This writer depicted that woman moving in with her sister and brother-in-law, Stella and Stanley. For 10 points, name this playwright who wrote about the Wingfield family in The Glass Menagerie and wrote about Blanche DuBois [doo-bwah] in New Orleans in A Streetcar Named Desire. ANSWER: Tennessee Williams [or Thomas Lanier Williams III]
8. This person described an offer from Stafford Cripps as a “post-dated check drawn on a failing bank.” Cripps had offered dominion status, which this person had almost received a decade earlier through a pact with Lord Irwin. This person then started a movement whose slogan was “Do or Die”, causing him and his followers to be jailed. With Lord Irwin, this person ended the salt tax in exchange for ending the Salt March. While in prison, this person fasted for several weeks in 1943. For 10 points, name this practitioner of nonviolence who worked with Jawaharlal Nehru [JUH-wah-hur-LAHL NEH-roo] to make India free from the United Kingdom. ANSWER: Mohandas (Karamchand “Mahatma”) Gandhi
9. A ballet by this composer has been popular since a 1940 version of it was put together by the choreographer Leonid Lavrovsky [lav-RAWFF-skee]. This composer wrote “The Street Awakens” and “Dance of the Girls with Lilies” for that ballet. In another work by this composer, the question “What kind of bird are you if you can’t fly?” is asked by a bird to a duck. This composer represented the duck with an oboe theme, while the grandfather was represented by a bassoon. For 10 points, name this 20th-century Russian composer of Romeo and Juliet and Peter and the Wolf. ANSWER: Sergei Prokofiev
10. One poem by this writer describes the actions of the invisible worm and then states “His dark secret love does thy life destroy.” This author of “The Sick Rose” wrote a poem about little Tom Dacre [DAY-kur] that begins “When my mother died I was very young” and in which Tom is told “When your head’s bare, you know that the soot cannot spoil your white hair.” In addition to “The Chimney Sweeper”, this author wrote a poem that asks “Did he who made the Lamb make thee?”. This poet addressed that poem to an animal that is “burning bright, in the forests of the night.” For 10 points, name this English poet whose Songs of Innocence and of Experience includes “The Tiger”. ANSWER: William Blake
11. The amount of this gas is measured by a technique developed by John Tyndall [TIN-dul] that uses infrared absorption. That method is used in both capnography and at the Mauna Loa Observatory. Amines [AM-eenz] are sometimes used to collect this gas, which can then be stored underground or underwater. In 2018 the U.S. Congress passed tax breaks for companies who follow that process, which is sometimes called the “capture” of the first element in this gas’s name. The amount of this gas in the atmosphere recently went above 400 parts per million. For 10 points, name this greenhouse gas that is released by the burning of fossil fuels. ANSWER: carbon dioxide or CO2 [do not accept or prompt on “carbon”]
12. When Congressman Wright Patman got frustrated with the I.R.S. and this agency, he made public a list of foundations that gave money to the J. M. Kaplan Fund. During the Eisenhower Administration, this agency was led by Allen Dulles [DULL-us], whose brother was the secretary of State. During the 1980s, this agency was led by William Casey, who may have admitted on his deathbed that he knew about diverting funds to the Contras in Nicaragua. This agency replaced the Office of Strategic Services and was created at the same time as the National Security Agency. For 10 points, name this U.S. agency that collects national security information from outside the U.S. ANSWER: CIA or Central Intelligence Agency
13. In one novel by this author, a loose tile from the floor hides an account book with the strongbox combination, and it is found after a photographer commits suicide. At the end of that novel, this author wrote that the New Fidelity boat was waving the yellow plague flag after the boat is used by Florentino and Fermina [fair-MEE-nah]. In another novel by this author, the future is predicted by the gypsy Melquíades [mel-KEE-ah-dayss]. This author wrote that novel about the family started by Úrsula Iguarán [OOR-soo-lah ee-gwah-RAHN] and José Arcadio Buendía, who start the town of Macondo. For 10 points, name this Colombian author of Love in the Time of Cholera [KAH-luh-ruh] and One Hundred Years of Solitude. ANSWER: Gabriel García Márquez [prompt on Márquez]
14. The Supreme Court invalidated this state’s criminal syndicalism [SIN-duh-kul-izm] statute in a 1969 decision that was brought by Ku Klux Klan leader Clarence Brandenburg. The ability of prosecutors to use illegally gained evidence was taken away by a 1961 U.S. Supreme Court decision on a case brought against this state by Dolly Mapp. The Environmental Policy Act passed after a river in this state caught fire in 1969. In 1970, National Guardsmen from this state shot four protesters at Kent State University. For 10 points, name this state where the Cuyahoga [kie-uh-HOE-guh] River caught fire in 1969 in Cleveland. ANSWER: Ohio
15. In this U.S. state, almost the entire town of Elkinsville was taken by eminent domain during the construction of Lake Monroe Reservoir. This state used to be the location of the Miami tribe city of Kekionga [KEE-kee-ahn-guh]. That location is now a town named for a fort that in turn was named for a Revolutionary War general nicknamed “Mad Anthony”. The capital and most populous city of this state has a Soldiers’ and Sailors’ Monument at the intersection of Meridian and Market, and it is also the home of Butler University. This state is also the site of Ball State, Purdue, and Notre Dame universities. For 10 points, name this state between Ohio and Illinois. ANSWER: Indiana (The town is Fort Wayne, and the capital is Indianapolis.)
16. This philosopher's last political treatise posits three "spheres" of abstract right, morality, and ethical life. This philosopher inspired a circle including Karl Daub and Johann Philipp Gabler who focused on his claim that the individual's "supreme duty is to be a member of the state" and were known as the "Right" followers of this man. The Left or "Young" disciples of this man included Ludwig Feuerbach [foo-er-bahk] and transmitted his concepts of thesis and antithesis to Karl Marx. For 10 points, name this German philosopher who discussed notions such as the "zeitgeist" and "dialectic" in The Phenomenology of Spirit. ANSWER: Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel
17. Some of the sculptures by this artist show his companion Fernande Olivier [fur-NAHND oh-LEE-vee-ay], including some of his Head of a Woman sculptures. After this artist broke up with Olivier, he repainted two of the faces on a painting of five women so that those two women now appear to wear African masks. In that painting, this artist portrayed five aggressively posed naked prostitutes. This painter of Les Demoiselles d’Avignon [lay dem-wah-zel dah-veen-yohn] also made a work showing the suffering of people and animals after a bombing during the Spanish Civil War. For 10 points, name this painter of Guernica [gair-NEE-kah]. ANSWER: Pablo (Ruiz y) Picasso
18. This person is often portrayed with his right hand touching the ground to show the moment when the Earth told this person “I bear you witness.” That occurred when this person overcame the demon Mara, whose daughters were used to tempt this person. Some depictions of this person show him being protected by a snake-like being named Mucalinda [moo-kah-LIN-duh]. Those events occurred before this person traveled to Sarnath [SAR-nuth], where he taught about suffering, the cause of suffering, the end of suffering, and the eight-fold path. For 10 points, name this former prince who taught about the Four Noble Truths in ancient India. ANSWER: Siddhartha Gautama [accept either; accept the Buddha; accept Bhagavat or Tathagata]
19. When an object moves in circular motion due to a magnetic field, this quantity equals mass times velocity divided by the quantity radius times magnetic field strength. Capacitance equals this quantity divided by electric potential difference. The elementary value for this quantity was measured in Robert Millikan’s oil drop experiment. The force of a magnetic field on a particle equals this quantity times the cross product of velocity with magnetic field. Electric current is the rate of flow of this quantity. For 10 points, name this quantity that is measured in coulombs [KOO-lohmz] and which is positive for protons and negative for electrons. ANSWER: electric charge
20. This leader sent the followers of Aulus Gabinius [OW-looss guh-BEE-nee-uss] to Marcus Bibulus [BEE-boo-luss] in Syria, and historians disagree as to whether or not Bibulus sent them back. This person went to Syria to build an army to fight a civil war against Arsinoe IV [ar-SIN-aw-ee “the 4th”] and Ptolemy XIII [TAH-luh-mee “the 13th”]. This person was successful after Ptolemy ordered the death of Pompey the Great, which led to Julius Caesar supporting this person. After this leader’s death years later, Egypt became a Roman province. During the Battle of Actium [AK-tee-um], this leader supported Mark Antony, and this leader committed suicide soon after Octavian’s victory. For 10 points, name this leader who ruled Egypt with Caesarion [suh-ZAR-ee-un], who was her son. ANSWER: Cleopatra (VII Philopator)
21. This explorer used the ships Half Moon and Discovery. The navigator Abacuk [AB-uh-kuk] Pricket kept notes about this explorer’s journeys, including the end when a mutiny sent this man, his son, and a few other sailors out in an open boat because most of the crew wanted to return home. The mutiny occurred after the expedition got trapped in ice in what is now called James Bay. In 1609, this explorer went along the coast of what is now Canada and the northern U.S., and in 1610, this explorer went across the Labrador Sea in the strait now named for him. For 10 points, name this explorer who tried to find the Northwest Passage and is now the namesake of a river and a bay. ANSWER: Henry Hudson
22. These organisms do not exactly fit into a genus [JEE-nus], but the best-known examples are in the genus Agaricus [uh-GAR-ih-kuss]. These organisms sometimes grow in patterns called fairy rings. These organisms are classified as monomitic [mah-noh-MIT-ik] because they only contain generative hyphae [“HI”-fee]. These organisms do not live in the water, but they have structures called gills that can also be called lamella [luh-MELL-uh]. These organisms are easy to recognize by their pileus [“PIE”-lee-uss], which is their cap. For 10 points, name this group of fungi that includes some poisonous examples, such as the deadly dapperling, and some delicious examples, such as shiitake [shih-tah-keh] and portobello. ANSWER: mushrooms [accept toadstools; prompt on fungus or fungi] 5
23. The Karatsuba [kar-at-soo-bah] algorithm is used to perform this operation on large numbers. When this operation is supposed to be applied in an iterative [IH-tuh-ruh-tiv] fashion, pi notation is used. This operation can only be applied to two matrices if the number of columns of the first matrix equals the number of rows of the second matrix. Applying this operation before taking a logarithm has the same impact as addition after taking a log. This operation can be distributed over addition and subtraction. For 10 points, name this operation that takes factors into a product. ANSWER: multiplication or multiplying [accept product before the end; accept times but not “timesing”]
24. An alloy of this element and niobium [ny-OH-bee-um] is used to make superconducting magnets. This element is in many minerals, including with oxygen in ilmenite [ILL-muh-“night”] and rutile [ROO-teel]. From those minerals, the tetra·chloride of this element can be formed from the Kroll process. The di·oxide of this element is a white pigment that is often combined with zinc oxide in sunscreens. The combination of high strength and low density of many alloys of this metal make them useful in spacecrafts and high-speed aircraft. Though this metal is too expensive for most commercial cars, it has become common in prosthetics. For 10 points, name this element whose chemical symbol is Ti [spell out]. ANSWER: titanium [accept Ti before the end]
1. 	An activist who believed that this condition does not exist co-founded the Citizens Commission on Human Rights. That activist, Thomas Szasz [ZAZ], wrote a 1961 book on the "myth" of this condition. A two-book series relating this condition to capitalism posits that "desiring-production" is a quality of the "body without organs" and was written by Gilles Deleuze [zheel DEH-looz] and Félix Guattari [fay-LIX gah-tah-ree]. The "Great Confinement" was described in Michel Foucault's [mee-shel foo-koh's] book on this condition "and civilization." For 10 points, name this kind of condition that may be treated in the title places of Erving Goffman's book Asylums. ANSWER: mental illness [accept rough synonyms, especially since most of the people discussed are talking almost exclusively about schizophrenia, such as mental health conditions or psychoses; accept schizophrenia or madness]
2. 	This person built on the success of Francisco de Miranda, who won the Battle of La Victoria [veek-toh-REE-ah]. After a series of disagreements, this person allied himself with Santiago Mariño [mah-REEN-yoh] by appointing him General of the Army of the East. This person defeated Domingo de Monteverde [mohn-tay-VAIR-day] after writing the Cartagena [kar-tah-HAY-nah] Manifesto during the Admirable Campaign. That victory allowed this person to re-establish the Venezuelan Republic in 1813. This person later became the leader of Peru. For 10 points, name this person nicknamed “The Liberator” because he liberated several South American countries from Spanish rule. ANSWER: Simón (José Antonio de la Santísima Trinidad) Bolívar (y Palacios Ponte y Blanco)
3. 	The type of statute named for this type of crime requires certain contracts to be in writing. Theranos founder Elizabeth Holmes was indicted both for conspiracy to commit this crime and for this crime itself. In 2020, Lori Loughlin [LAWFF-lin] pled guilty to conspiracy to commit this type of crime. Loughlin was accused of committing the mail and wire types of this crime. Identity theft is often committed so that this crime can be committed. To protect people from this type of crime, the Federal Trade Commission has a scam alert system. For 10 points, name this crime in which somebody loses something due to intentional deception. ANSWER: (wire and/or mail) fraud [do not accept similar terms like “scam”] 1
4. 	Near the end of one story by this writer, the Captain sees his white floppy hat in the water, which helps him steer clear of the island of Koh-ring. This writer has the narrator of that story describe another man as his “double”. In that story, this author wrote about sailing close to the ship Sephora [seh-FOR-uh], which allowed Leggatt [LEG-ut] to come aboard after escaping. In a novella by this author, the manager’s boy famously announces that one of the characters is dead shortly after that character says “The horror! The horror!”. That character, who is an ivory trader by the Congo River, is Mr. Kurtz. For 10 points, name this author of “The Secret Sharer” and Heart of Darkness. ANSWER: Joseph Conrad [or Józef Konrad Korzeniowski]
5. 	This artist used the phrase “Femme-coccyx” [fem KAH-siks] to describe the women whom he depicted in his sculpture Woman Aflame and his painting The Burning Giraffe. Ten sculptures by this artist are in a garden in Marbella, Spain, including the depiction of his wife Gala [GAH-luh] leaning out the window. In a painting by this artist, a group of ants cover an orange clock in the lower left corner. That painting also shows a leafless tree whose branch holds up a melting clock. For 10 points, name this surrealist painter of The Persistence of Memory. ANSWER: Salvador (Domingo Felipe Jacinto) Dalí (i Domènech)
6. 	This novel uses the phrase “angry people are not always wise” before a woman reminds a man that he sarcastically said of another woman, “She a beauty!—I should as soon call her mother a wit.” The woman who talks in that part of this novel is the sister of Louisa Hurst and lives at Netherfield Park with her brother. In this novel, that brother, Charles Bingley, marries Jane, who is the oldest of five sisters. The second oldest of those five sisters eventually falls in love with Fitzwilliam Darcy. For 10 points, name this novel about the Bennet sisters written by Jane Austen. ANSWER: Pride and Prejudice 
7. 	After visiting a demonstration of the model of this non-vehicle object invented by Cornelis Drebbel, a man developed a form of this device originally called the "occhiolino" [AWK-yoh-lee-noh]. An attempt to improve the manufacture of these devices led to the development of the Abbe sine condition. Zacharias Janssen pioneered the "compound" form of these devices, of which 25 or more were made for use in biological research by Anton Van Leeuwenhoek [von LAY-vun-hoak]. Within 40 years of the first manufacture of these devices, Marcello Malpighi and Robert Hooke used them to discover capillaries and cells. For 10 points, name these optical devices which can be used to study objects invisible to the naked eye.ANSWER: optical microscopes
8. 	In this novel, Master Brackett brings a physician to see a prisoner. This novel’s prisoner asks “Hast thou enticed me into a bond that will prove the ruin of my soul?”, and the doctor replies “Not thy soul; no, not thine!”. The prisoner is later released and makes a living doing needlework. The beginning, middle, and end of this novel have scaffold scenes, in the last of which Arthur Dimmesdale publicly confesses that he is Pearl’s father. The title of this novel refers to a punishment used to shame Hester Prynne [prin]. For 10 points, name this novel about the effect of an adulterous affair, written by Nathaniel Hawthorne.  ANSWER: The Scarlet Letter 
9. 	The Donnan effect, which is sometimes named for this situation, is caused by a net electric charge across a barrier. Changes in the constant named for this situation are related to enthalpy and temperature by the van ’t Hoff [vahnt hawff] equation. This situation exists when free energy is minimized. The constant named for this situation can be found by dividing two rate constants. A change in conditions will in turn affect the conditions of this situation according to Le Chatelier’s [luh “shot”-lee-ay’z] principle. For 10 points, name this situation in which the rate of a forward reaction equals the rate of a backwards reaction, so that concentrations do not change. ANSWER: chemical equilibrium 
10. William F. Buckley ran for this position in 1965. The person who beat Buckley, who would win re-election to this job by running for the Liberal Party after losing the Republican primary, was John Lindsay. The person who held this job from 1934 to 1945 was a pro-New Deal Republican who hosted the radio show “Talk to the People” and worked closely with Robert Moses to build roads, bridges, and airports. From 1994 to 2001, this job was held by Rudy Giuliani, and Giuliani was succeeded by the wealthiest politician in U.S. history, Michael Bloomberg. For 10 points, name this position, once held by Fiorello La Guardia [fee-oh-RELL-loh lah GWAR-dee-ah], that oversees the most populous U.S. city. ANSWER: mayor of New York City [accept alternate phrasings that include both underlined parts; prompt on mayor; accept NYC in place of New York]
11. The anthropologist Alfred Radcliffe-Brown noticed that a serpent named for these things was a central figure in many Aboriginal [ab-“original”] Australian myths. Greek gods often sent messages using a goddess who traveled along these things. That goddess of these things, who cut a lock of Dido’s [“DIE”-doh’z] hair when Dido was on the funeral pyre, was Iris. In Norse mythology, a burning bridge between Midgard and Asgard is one of these things called Bifrost [BIV-rahst]. For 10 points, name these things that in Irish mythology have a pot of treasure at their end, guarded by a leprechaun. ANSWER: rainbows
12. For some organisms, this cell is surrounded by the vitelline [“vie”-TELL-un] membrane, and in other organisms it is surrounded by the zona pellucida [puh-LOO-sid-uh]. The nucleus of this cell is the germinal [JER-muh-nul] vesicle. This cell is the largest human cell. The structure holding this cell either goes through a disintegration process called atresia [uh-TREE-zhuh] or turns into a corpus luteum [LOO-tee-um]. Like hair, these cells originate from follicles, which release this cell in response to the luteinizing [LOO-tee-un-“eyes”-ing] hormone. For 10 points, name this cell that is released from the ovaries and can be fertilized by sperm. ANSWER: egg cell or eggs or ovum or ova [or oocyte(s)]
13. With this president’s support, Congress passed the American Housing Act, which cleared slums and allocated money to build 800,000 public housing units. Despite this president’s veto, Congress reacted to a wave of millions of workers striking by controlling union activity through the Taft-Hartley Act. A famous picture of this president shows him holding up a mistaken Chicago Tribune claiming he had lost to Thomas Dewey. A sign on this president’s desk said “The buck stops here” on one side and “I’m from Missouri” on the other. For 10 points, name this president who decided to drop atomic bombs on Japan shortly after succeeding Franklin D. Roosevelt. ANSWER: Harry S. Truman 
14. This instrument was played by the leader of the Gramercy Five whose big band popularized Cole Porter's song "Begin the Beguine" [beg-een]. This instrument of Artie Shaw is played on "Egyptian Fantasy" by Sidney Bechet [buh-shay], who later switched to the related soprano saxophone. The leader of a landmark 1938 jazz concert at Carnegie Hall primarily played this instrument and was known as the "King of Swing." For 10 points, name this single-reeded woodwind that is traditionally made of black grenadilla wood and was played by Benny Goodman.ANSWER: [jazz] clarinet
15. To improve transportation in its western part, this country recently built the Golmud-Korla railway, which crosses the Taklamakan [tahk-luh-MAH-kun] Desert. The north end of the Karakoram [kar-uh-KOR-um] Highway is at this country’s city of Kashgar [KASH-gar], which is in the western part of this country near Kyrgyzstan [KUR-gih-stan] and Tajikistan [tuh-JIK-uh-stan]. Both the third- and sixth-longest rivers in the world are entirely in this country. The south of this country borders Myanmar, Bhutan, and Laos, and its north borders Russia and Mongolia. For 10 points, name this country whose capital is Beijing. ANSWER: (People’s Republic of) China or PRC or Zhonghuá (Rénmín Gònghéguó)
16. One way to calculate this value is to multiply 2 times the fine-structure constant times the von Klitzing constant and divide by the speed of light. This value is also equal to 1 plus the magnetic susceptibility. The difference between diamagnetic [“DIE-uh-magnetic”] and paramagnetic [“PAIR-uh-magnetic”] materials is that in diamagnets the relative type of this value is less than 1. This value equals the ratio of a magnetic B-field to an auxiliary magnetic H-field. Until recently, 4 pi times 10 to the −7th power was the defined value for this quantity in free space. For 10 points, name this measure of resistance to the formation of a magnetic field.  ANSWER: (magnetic) permeability (of free space)
17. At the beginning of a short story by this author, a woman waits to call her mother and then tells her that her husband was not staring at trees as he drove. In that story, this author wrote about a conversation on the beach between Sybil Carpenter and Seymour Glass. A novel by this author is narrated by the brother of the author of “The Secret Goldfish”. This author’s best-known narrator becomes upset because of a date between Ward Stradlater and Jane Gallagher after he is expelled from Pencey Preparatory Academy. For 10 points, name this author of “A Perfect Day for Bananafish” who wrote about Holden Caulfield in The Catcher in the Rye.  ANSWER: J(erome) D(avid) Salinger 
18. This organization carried out Operation Active Endeavour in the Mediterranean Sea shortly after invoking Article V [5] for the first time. This organization’s Article X [10] governs its expansions. The headquarters of this organization moved from Paris to Brussels when France pulled out of its military structure. In 1999 and 2004, this organization added several eastern European countries, which according to Russia was a broken promise. In reaction to West Germany joining this organization in 1955, the Warsaw Pact was formed. For 10 points, name this organization formed in 1949, an alliance of countries who were opposed to the Soviet Union.  ANSWER: NATO or the North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
19. In a Wronskian [RAHN-skee-un] matrix, after the first row each entry is made by applying this operation to the entry above it. “Partial” versions of this operation are used to compute each entry in a Jacobian [yah-KOH-bee-un] matrix. Divergence, curl, and gradient are versions of this operation for vector-related functions. A rhyme ending “draw the line and square below” is used to remember how to perform the quotient rule for this operation. This operation can also be done using the product rule and the chain rule. For 10 points, name this operation used in calculus to find the slope of a tangent line to a function’s graph.  ANSWER: derivatives or differentiation or differentiating 
20. Late in his career, this musician recorded an album that had Joe Zawinul [ZAW-wi-nul], Herbie Hancock, and Chick Corea [kor-EE-uh] all play electric piano. That album by this musician features the songs “Shhh” and “Peaceful”. Much of this performer’s music was arranged by Gil Evans, including his performance of “Concierto de Aranjuez” [kohn-see-AIR-toh day ar-ahn-WEZ] on Sketches of Spain. The song “Flamenco Sketches” appears on an album by this musician that features the saxophonists “Cannonball” Adderley and John Coltrane. For 10 points, name this jazz trumpeter who recorded the albums In a Silent Way and Kind of Blue.  ANSWER: Miles (Dewey) Davis (III)
21. This order contains an animal called the coypu [KOY-poo], though Americans use the name “nutria” [NOO-tree-uh] because of a trade name for the animal’s fur. Animals in this order are responsible for spreading Lassa fever and other roboviruses. This order has far more species than any other order of mammals. This order is characterized by continuously growing incisors from both jaws. Animals in this order usually do not migrate, but lemmings do. The largest animal in this order is the capybara [kap-ee-BAIR-uh]. These animals live on land, though muskrats and beavers are in this order and are good swimmers. For 10 points, name this order that includes guinea pigs, rats, and mice.  ANSWER: rodents or Rodentia
22. If the divergence of a vector field is this type of number, then the field’s flux is outward rather than inward. If a correlation coefficient is this type of number, then an independent value greater than the mean is likely paired with a dependent value greater than the mean. If the dot product of two vectors is this type of number, the angle between the vectors is acute. The range of exponential functions is these numbers, and the domain of logarithmic functions is these numbers. If a slope is this type of number, then a line is increasing. For 10 points, give this term for numbers greater than zero.  ANSWER: positive real numbers [or positive reals; accept positives; before the end, prompt on descriptions like numbers greater than 0 or numbers larger than 0; do not accept answers containing “non-negative”]
23. After listing several Biblical men who were led astray by women, this character states “If I be led astray, methinks I may be excused.” This character’s horse is Gringolet [grahn-goh-lay]. This character receives a slain deer and then gives a kiss to Bertilak as part of a bargain that they give each other what they received during the day. This character later wears a magic girdle that is supposed to protect him. Before that, this character chops off a giant’s head, but the giant picks up the head and walks away. For 10 points, name this nephew of King Arthur who, according to the Pearl Poet, had an adventure involving a green knight.  ANSWER: Sir Gawain [guh-WAYN] 
24. This object is the location of Ahuna [ah-HOO-nuh] Mons, which is a large cryovolcano [“CRY”-oh-“volcano”] with vertical streaks. Research in the last few years indicates that this object has a similar amount of water and water ice to Earth, including in its mantle and on its surface, even though this object’s radius is a little under one-tenth of Earth’s radius. This object is the larger of the two objects orbited by the Dawn spacecraft, which has been going around it since 2015. This object is larger than, but in a similar orbit to, Pallas and Vesta. This object is by far the nearest dwarf planet. For 10 points, name this largest asteroid.  ANSWER: Ceres [“series”] 
1. 	A 1951 book with this system in the title distinguishes the "the mob" from "the masses" and posits that this system can only arise when "the masses" replace class distinctions. That book says that this system is a "perpetual-motion mania" that must always have an enemy, and compares the role of Jews and "wreckers" in two forms of this system. Anti-Semitism and imperialism precede this system according to that book, which posits that this system is the common larger grouping of Nazism and Stalinism. Hannah Arendt wrote a book on the "origins of," for 10 points, what system in which all aspects of life are dictated by the government? ANSWER: totalitarianism [accept totalitarian system or government; do not accept or prompt on other words such as "authoritarianism"]
2. 	One of this author’s characters likes to fly kites and works on a memorial speech that refers to King Charles I. This author has that character, who is called Mr. Dick, help Dr. and Annie Strong with their marriage. Dr. Strong heads a school that this author’s title character attends after leaving a school headed by Mr. Creakle. In another novel by this author, two characters who look nearly identical are named Sydney Carton and Charles Darnay. This author began that novel “It was the best of times, it was the worst of times.” For 10 points, name this author of David Copperfield and A Tale of Two Cities.  ANSWER: Charles (John Huffam) Dickens 
3. 	Microbiology in these locations has been studied by Hazel Barton, particularly in Naj Tunich [nah TOO-neech] in Guatemala. Animals that live in these locations are called troglobites [TRAHG-loh-“bites”]. These places are often caused by the dissolving of limestone or dolomite [DOH-loh-“mite”], though near Mount Sodom [SAH-dum] in Israel they can be caused by the dissolving of salt. These places are usually found in karst terrains, and the study of these places is speleology [spee-lee-AH-luh-jee]. Deposits growing from the floors of these places are called stalagmites, while deposits from the ceilings are stalactites. For 10 points, name these chambers within the earth, such as the Mammoth one in Kentucky.  ANSWER: caves [or caverns or grottos]
4. 	In one novel by this writer, the protagonist requests to be buried in the corner of a churchyard by two lime trees. This author had that protagonist compare his love for a woman with his love of the Gaelic poet Ossian [AH-see-un]. That protagonist is in love with a woman who is engaged to Albert. In a play by this author, the main female character goes to prison after drowning her son. That play revolves around a deal about a man’s wish to stay in a moment forever. This writer begins that play with a deal between God and Mephistopheles [meff-ih-STAH-fuh-leez]. For 10 points, name this German author of The Sorrows of Young Werther [VAIR-tuh] and Faust.  ANSWER: Johann Wolfgang von Goethe [GRR-tuh] 
5. 	This instrument is the lead instrument in a piece based on Song of Solomon whose first section is called Sicut Lilium inter spinas [SEE-koot LEE-lee-oom IN-tur SPEE-nuss]. That work is Ralph [rayff] Vaughan Williams’ Flos Campi [KAM-pee]. There are several trios that combine this instrument with a flute and a harp, including Darius Milhaud’s [meel-oh’z] Adieu and a sonata by Claude Debussy [deb-yoo-see]. In a standard orchestra, the people who play this instrument usually sit front and center or a little off to the right. The strings on this instrument are tuned exactly one octave higher than a cello. For 10 points, name this instrument that is a little larger than a violin.  ANSWER: viola 
6. 	The person who held this position from January 1987 to June 1989 had a controversial meeting with Sandinista [san-din-EE-stuh] leader Daniel Ortega and eventually resigned over a controversy over bulk purchases of his book Reflections of a Public Man; that person was Jim Wright. The person who held this position from 1999 to 2006 was later jailed for using hush money to conceal sexual misconduct; that person was Dennis Hastert. The person with the longest uninterrupted time in this position was Tip O’Neill, and the longest overall time was Sam Rayburn. For 10 points, name this position recently held by Paul Ryan and Nancy Pelosi.  ANSWER: Speaker of the (United States) House of Representatives [or House Speaker] 2
7. 	In one poem by this writer, the phrase “sweet deepener of dark loneliness” is used to describe the sounds made at twilight by a whippoorwill. During the 20th century, knowledge of this poet’s travels increased with the finding of Sora’s Diary. This person’s best-known travel writing begins “Days and months are travelers of eternity. So are the years that pass by.” Those words open this writer’s travel diary The Narrow Road to the Deep North. Another poem by this writer ends “I long for Kyoto.” For 10 points, name this poet who wrote the lines “an ancient pond / a frog jumps in / the splash of water” and many other haikus.  ANSWER: Matsuo Basho [prompt on Basho]
8. 	These structures contain Volkmann’s canals that allow blood flow from nutrient arteries. The ends of some of these structures are called epiphyses [eh-PIF-uh-seez]. Of the three classes of fish, the one that is not Agnatha or Chondrichthyes [kahn-DRIK-theez] has a name indicating that it has the tissue in these structures. These structures often include medullary [MED-ul-ar-ee] cavities that are lined by the endosteum [en-DAH-stee-um], while the outer surfaces of these structures are lined by the periosteum [peer-ee-AH-stee-um]. One tissue often found inside of these structures is where leukemia is active and where blood cells are created; that tissue is the marrow. For 10 points, name these rigid structures that make up the skeleton.  ANSWER: bones
9. 	An angel told this person “Recite in the name of thy lord who created, created man from a clot.” This person rode a winged horse-like creature called a Buraq [boo-RAHK] to Jerusalem, where he met Abraham and Jesus, and he got into a debate with Moses about daily prayers. Later, though he was badly outnumbered, this leader won the Battle of the Trench. That battle was fought at Yathrib [YAY-thrib], which now has a different name. This person’s practices are described in the sunna [SOON-uh], and his words are given in hadith [hah-DEETH]. For 10 points, name this 6th- and 7th-century leader who was visited by the angel Gabriel and wrote down the Koran.  ANSWER: Muhammad [prompt on The Prophet or The Messenger] 3
10. After this leader captured the princess Drypetis [DRYP-tiss], he arranged for her to marry his bodyguard Hephaestion [huh-FEESS-tee-un]. This person came to power when his father was killed by the bodyguard Pausanias [paw-SAY-nee-us]. Shortly after gaining power, this leader forced the surrender of the army of Thessaly [THESS-uh-lee]. Because Pindar praised one of this person’s ancestors, he spared Pindar’s house when he destroyed Thebes [theebz]. This leader ended the Achaemenid [uh-KEE-muh-nid] Empire after defeating Darius III at Gaugamela [gau-guh-MEH-luh] and Issus. For 10 points, name this person who succeeded his father, Philip II of Macedon, after being tutored by Aristotle.  ANSWER: Alexander the Great [or Alexander III of Macedon]
11. This novel praises the pictures in Thomas Beale’s history book. One character in this novel says the word “Rarmai” while lying in his coffin and then decides to live. This novel’s narrator asks himself about that character, “How then could I unite with this wild idolator in worshipping his piece of wood?”. In the end, this novel’s narrator stays afloat on top of an unused coffin after everyone else is killed. Daggoo, Tashtego, and Queequeg [KWEE-kweg] are the harpooners in this novel. This novel consists of Ishmael narrating Captain Ahab’s pursuit of a whale. For 10 points, name this novel by Herman Melville.  ANSWER: Moby-Dick(; or, The Whale) [do not accept or prompt on “The Whale”]
12. This psychologist’s first major book examined the myth of wise people and the culture of avoidance among Yurok [YUR-ahk] Native Americans, and it also examined the effects of education on a Sioux [soo] reservation. That book was Childhood and Society, and this psychologist later wrote Young Man Luther. This person believed that the first 18 months of life were important to develop a sense of trust. This person described a problem that arises from inappropriate adolescent development using the phrase “identity crisis”. For 10 points, name this German-American scientist who included both “initiative vs. guilt” [pause] and “industry vs. inferiority” among his eight stages of psycho·social development.  ANSWER: Erik Erikson [accept Homburger or Salomonsen]
13. For inadequate response to people in this profession, Diane Deans was voted out as chair of a police board. At a hearing involving several people who claimed to represent this profession, Dwayne Lich was chastised by Judge Julie Bourgeois for invoking First Amendment rights. Chris Barber and B.J. Dichter were also arrested for actions involving a group of people in this profession, who in February 2022 were targeted by a rare invocation of the Emergencies Act after a long demonstration against COVID vaccine mandates. For 10 points, Justin Trudeau ended a blockade of Ottawa streets by people claiming to speak for what profession as a "Freedom Convoy?" ANSWER: [Canadian] truckers or truck drivers
14. About half of what is now this state was ceded to the United States in the Treaty of Dancing Rabbit Creek by Choctaw Native Americans. The first African-American person to enroll in this state’s flagship university, who would later survive being shot during a march, was James Meredith. Reactions against integration in this state led to the murder of Medgar Evers, and reactions against voter registration led to the murders of James Chaney, Andrew Goodman, and Michael Schwerner near the small town of Philadelphia. For 10 points, name this state where the Battle of Vicksburg was fought.  ANSWER: Mississippi 
15. The partial type of this property exists for trace monoids. In logic, the material conditional is the only major binary relation that does not have this property. When this property does not hold, it is necessary to specify left or right multiplication. If this property holds, then changing the order of the operands does not change the result. NAND gates exhibit this property but are not associative. Many systems that have this property also have distributive and associative properties. For 10 points, name this property stating that “x plus y” always equals “y plus x”.  ANSWER: commutative property or commutativity [accept answers that also mention addition or multiplication]
17. The transverse and longitudinal versions of this quantity are discussed in Albert Einstein’s On the Electrodynamics of Moving Bodies. That paper divides by 1 minus speed squared divided by the speed of light squared to find the transverse form of this quantity after starting with the rest type of it. The period of a spring equals 2 pi times the square root of this quantity divided by the spring constant. The weight of an object equals this quantity times the gravitational field strength. Momentum is calculated by multiplying this quantity times velocity. For 10 points, name this quantity that is measured in kilograms.  ANSWER: mass 
18. This artist made two paintings with the same title, one now in Milan that shows Jesus pointing with his right hand and another now in London with an open right hand. Both of those paintings depict Jesus identifying himself to two disciples after his death. Another painting by this artist depicts Jesus pointing at a man in a customs house who is about to become a disciple. That painting in the Contarelli [kohn-tah-RELL-lee] Chapel is part of a series of paintings that this person made of that disciple. For 10 points, name this Italian painter of Supper at Emmaus [eh-MAY-uss] and The Calling of Saint Matthew.  ANSWER: (Michelangelo Merisi da) Caravaggio [accept either underlined name; do not accept or prompt on “Michelangelo”]
19. The ground on which this sport is played is marked by tramlines. Jimmy Van Alen [AL-un] both started this sport’s hall of fame and designed its tiebreaker system. One of the biggest rivalries in the history of this sport was between Chris Evert and Martina Navratilova. Some matches in this sport have been hyped as the “Battle of the Sexes”, including two matches in 1973 featuring Bobby Riggs, who claimed he could beat any woman; he defeated Margaret Court but lost to Billie Jean King. More recent stars in this sport have included Roger Federer [FED-ur-ur] and Serena Williams. For 10 points, name this sport in which a ball is hit over a net.  ANSWER: (lawn) tennis 
20. This European country settled the city of Dili [DEE-lee] in the 16th century, and they fought for many years with the Dutch and the natives over the island of Timor [TEE-mor]. This country also fought with the Dutch over other islands in a conflict nicknamed the “Spice War”. This country claimed Mozambique [moh-zam-BEEK] after expeditions by Pedro da Covilhã [koo-VEEL-yaw] and Vasco da Gama. Another explorer from this country was Pedro Cabral, who is considered the European discoverer of Brazil. For 10 points, name this country that signed the Treaty of Tordesillas [tor-day-SEE-yahss] with Spain and which now shares the Iberian Peninsula with Spain.  ANSWER: (Kingdom of) Portugal [or Reino de Portugal]
21. All irrational numbers map to this number in the Thomae [TOH-may] function. If all of the equations in a system equal this number, then the system is classified as homogeneous. If the determinant of a matrix equals this number, then the matrix cannot be inverted. If factors multiply to equal this number, then at least one of the factors equals this number, according to this number’s product property. This number is the only real number without a multiplicative inverse, which means that this number does not have a reciprocal. For 10 points, identify this number that is the additive identity and that is neither positive nor negative.  ANSWER: zero 
22. A device that changes this quantity in an electrical signal is a combination of a rectifier and an inverter. A non-linear electrical circuit called a mixer is sometimes named for the fact that it mixes two values of this quantity. Using the most common unit for this quantity, it has a value between about 20 and 20,000 for audible sound. Albert Einstein explained the photoelectric effect by describing a photon’s energy as proportional to this quantity. The speed of a wave is the product of the wavelength and this quantity. For 10 points, name this quantity of waves that is the reciprocal of period and which is measured in hertz [“hurts”].  ANSWER: frequency [prompt on hertz]
23. This president’s secretary of State wrote a letter to Austria saying “The house of Hapsburg are but as a patch on the earth’s surface.” Shortly after that, this president met with Lajos Kossuth [LAH-yosh KOH-shoot], the exiled leader of Hungary. This president’s second secretary of State was Edward Everett, who replaced Daniel Webster. This person is the only president to both become president due to his predecessor’s death and to fire his predecessor’s entire cabinet. Just after this person became president, he supported and signed the Compromise of 1850. This person was the last president from the Whig Party. For 10 points, name this person who became president when Zachary Taylor died.  ANSWER: Millard Fillmore 
24. In the body, an equivalent of this molecule is condensed with carbon dioxide and ATP to form carbamoyl [kar-BAM-oh-ill] phosphate, ADP, and phosphate. Outside the body, sodium carbonate is created by the Solvay process, which begins with brine absorbing this compound. An alternative name for the Solvay process is based on the fact that it combines this compound with soda. The Ostwald process makes nitric acid from this compound. The Haber–Bosch [HAH-bur bahsh] process creates this compound from atmospheric nitrogen. For 10 points, name this compound whose chemical formula is NH3 [“N H 3”].  ANSWER: ammonia 
 
