['To Kill a Mockingbird ', '  After one character in this work destroys the morphine addict Mrs. Dubose’s flowers, he is forced to read to her everyday until she dies.  The father of the protagonist of this work is described as || “One Shot” after shooting a rabid dog named Tim Johnson . The black man Tom Robinson is falsely convicted of the rape of Mayella Ewell in this novel, which reveals the racism in the town of Maycomb, Alabama.  For 10 points, name this novel centering on Scout Finch, written by Harper Lee. ']
['Republic of Guatemala  ', ' This country was home to the Kaqchikel and the K’iche’, who were conquered by Pedro de Alvarado. A later leader of this country who embraced the ‘guns and beans’ campaign to combat insurgents, Efraín Rios Montt, was later convicted of genocide against this country’s indigenous people. Another leader embraced Decree 900, an agrarian reform law opposed by the || United Fruit Company, but was later overthrown by the CIA in operation PBSUCCESS. This country’s indigenous people were once led by Pakal the Great and built the city of Tikal. For 10 points, name this Central American nation formerly led by Jacobo Arbenz and home to the Mayans. ']
['Dorothea Lange ', ' One of this artist's works shows three Egyptian women bringing food to the dead and was inspired by her trip to the Middle East, and collaborated with Prickle Jones to depict the destruction of a Virginia Landmark. Another work by this artist shows a man nervously looking away from a crowd of people while his arms cover up a cup, and this artist also depicted a solemn Japanese family awaiting internment at || Manzanar Internment Camp. This photographer of White Angel Breadline showed two children behind a nervously looking Florence Owens Thompson in her most famous photograph. For 10 points, name this female photographer of Migrant Mother . ']
['Muammar Mohammed Abu Minyar Gaddafi  ', ' This leader may have been the target of an assassination attempt that brought down Itavia Flight 870. This man moved into the Bab al-Azizia barracks after the success of the 1 September Revolution. This man ordered a jihad against Switzerland following the arrest of his son Hannibal, and he was the target of Operation El Dorado Canyon after he bombed a West Berlin || discotheque. This leader changed the flag of his country to an all-green banner, and he orchestrated the Lockerbie bombing. A 2011 civil war caused by the Arab Spring revolts brought down, for 10 points, what Libyan leader, who outlined his ideology in the Green Book? ']
['Colorado River  ', ' A project that moves water from this river to the Front Range Urban Corridor is known as the Grand Ditch. This river, which begins at the La Poudre Pass, is joined by the Gunnison and Gila Rivers. Changes in the flow of this river hundreds of years ago created the Salton Sea. This river flows through || Yuma, where it makes its only international border crossing. On its journey towards the Gulf of California, water from this river iscollected for hydroelectric use at Lake Mead. For 10 points, name this American river that flows through the Hoover Dam and which created the Grand Canyon. ']
['Liberty Leading the People  ', ' One figure standing on the left side of this work legendarily resembled either the theater director Etienne Arago or the artist himself. The leftmost figure in this painting has his hand and a saber on a pile of rocks, while another man depicted in this painting is presented with only one sock. A figure wears a cholet || handkerchief across his sash in this painting, while a boy with two pistols stands next to the title Phrygian Cap wearing figure. That woman leads others along the way by waving a giant tricolor flag above. For 10 points, name this Eugene Delacroix painting that commemorates the July Revolution. ']
['decapitation  ', ' Description acceptable. In the Ramayana, Lakshmana uses the Indrastra to perform this action on Ravana’s son, Meghana, and an incident involving an infinite pillar of fire resulted in a god doing this action to Brahma. One character does this action to another character after receiving a girdle from Lord Berlitak and exchanging kisses for items such as a boar. Because of his ultimate devotion to Paravati, Ganesha was subjected to this type of || punishment from the destroyer god Shiva, while Gawain eventually enacted this form of punishment on the Green Knight. For 10 points, name this form of killing which involves chopping off one’s head. ']
['United States Secretary of State ', ' One holder of this position helped resolve a dispute involving ships such as the USS San Jacinto . The longest serving holder of this position was unable to stop the SS Quanza from disembarking due to the efforts of Eleanor Roosevelt. A Nobel Peace Prize laureate who held this position organized a program that replaced the Morgenthau Plan, while another holder of this position controversially won the Nobel Prize for organizing the Paris || Peace Accords with Lê Đức Thọ. The last holder of this position was previously the CIA Director and succeeded Rex Tillerson. For 10 points, name this cabinet position, most recently held by Mike Pompeo and Anthony Blinken. ']
['mass spec trometry  ', ' In one method, analytes are prepared for this technique by collisions with many neutral gas molecules. Another preparation step in this technique can be achieved by blasting proteins with a laser after placing it on a matrix and is known as MALDI. That method is often paired with a "time of flight" type of this technique. When done || twice, this technique is called "tandem." After ionizing them, this technique measures the deflection of molecules through an electric field. For 10 points, name this technique that measures the mass to charge ratio of fragments of a molecule. ']
[' Graham Greene ', ' In a novel by this author, a character who eats a lump of sugar at the mouth of an Indian Boy near a grave starts a fight with a small dog in a deserted house for a bone. Dr. Hasselbacher is murdered in another novel by this author whose protagonist starts a relationship with his secretary Beatrice Severn. The protagonist befriends the dentist Mr. Tench and is taught morse code by Coral Fellows in a novel by this author. This creator of || James Wormwold depicted the Mestizo’s betrayal of a whiskey priest in a novel featuring anti-catholic authorities in Mexico. For 10 points, name this British author of Our Man in Havana and The Power and the Glory . ']
['Republic of Poland  ', ' This present-day country was invaded by foreign leaders like Charles X Gustav during the Second Northern War. This nation hosted the signing of the May 3rd Constitution, which was opposed by the Targowica Confederation. This country’s Stanisław II Augustus was its final monarch, who supported an uprising led by a major general who was instrumental at the Battle of Saratoga. That man was || Tadeusz Kościuszko. The uprising of the Bar Confederation in this country eventually led to the Sejm ratifying its First Partition in 1773.. For 10 points, name this country whose Sigismund III moved its capital from Kraków to Warsaw. ']
['Piano Concerto s  ', ' Mozart’s ninth and twenty-second pieces of this type, both in E-flat major, feature a minuet in A-flat interrupting the final Rondo movement. One work in this genre begins with a descending flourish following a timpani roll. That is Edvard Grieg’s long A || minor piece of this type. Rachmaninoff’s four pieces in this genre are considered to be among the most difficult, especially the second. They usually contain three movements, the first of which ends in an improvised cadenza. For 10 points, name this type of work for a namesake solo instrument and accompanying ensemble, exemplified by Beethoven’s fifth and final one, Emperor. ']
['Caesar Marcus Aurelius Antoninus Augustus  ', ' Correspondence between this man and his tutor Fronto tell of his apprenticeship under his predecessor and adoptive father. Upon his ascension to the throne, this man reduced the silver content of the denarius. During this man’s reign, an invasion by Ballabar was part of the Marcomannic Wars. His general Cassius would later sack Selucia and || Ctesiphon. Cassius’s campaign saw the first appearance of the Antonine Plague, which would go on to kill this man’s co-emperor Lucius Verus. For 10 points, name this last of the Five Good Emperors, who was succeeded by his son Commodus and wrote the Meditations on Stoic philosophy . ']
['grasses  ', ' Animals that primarily consume members of this plant family contain an omasum and abomasum, produce a portion of food in need of further chewing called cud, have four-chambered stomachs, and are called ruminants. Members of this family are dominant on || steppes and savannas. Cereals, such as wheat and corn, are part of this plant family that also includes bamboo. For 10 points, name this family of plants found on lawns. ']
['Jorge Luis Borges ', ' In a poem by this author, he mentions the time “when the sorrows lays us low” and describes “the taste of fruit / the taste of water.” This author of “Shinto” wrote a story in which an object has the power to create obsession when an individual glances at it. In another story by this author, Scharlach kills a detective named Lonnrot, who was investigating three murders at the time. This author of “Death || and the Compass” penned a story in which a point from the basement of Carlos Daneri allows one to see every point in the universe, titled “The Aleph.” For 10 points, Name this Argentine author whose stories are collected in Ficciones . ']
['Marc Zakharovich Chagall ', ' This artist portrayed a musician in a purple suit floating over multiple houses in The Green Violinist . This painter depicted himself and his wife, Bella Rosenfeld, sharing a kiss while floating in a work painted a few weeks before their marriage. In addition to The Birthday, this artist painted a work which sees a || yellow church flanked by two upside down houses, while a woman in a blue skirt plays a violin next to a man with a scythe. In that work by this artist, the two central figures, a man colored green and a lamb, stare into each other’s eyes. For 10 points, name this Belarusian painter of I and the Village. ']
['American Pie ', ' This song inquires whether the listener has “ faith in God above” before asking whether music can “save your mortal soul.” The composer of this song may reference Charles Manson after describing the assassinations of John F. Kennedy and Lee Harvey Oswald by claiming that “the courtroom was adjourned” and that “no verdict was returned.” After recalling how there was “bad || news on the doorstep,” this song laments about the deaths of the Big Bopper, Richie Valens, and Buddy Holly on February 3, 1959. For 10 points, which Don McLean song discusses “the day the music died”? ']
['Tao te Ching  ', ' This text's "mysterious female" can allow someone to access its title concept, and this text notes that "true words aren't eloquent and eloquent words aren't true." This work can also be called the Sutra or the "5,000-character classic" and it's first line states that the title concept can't be its || eternal self if it can be spoken. This text advocates for inaction or "wu wei" and along with the Zhuangzi, it forms the foundation for the philosophical school of Taoism. For 10 points, name this Chinese classic credited to the "Old Master" Laozi. ']
['George W Mitt Romney  ', ' A man with this surname served as Richard Nixon’s first Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, though he resigned his post shortly after confronting the victims of Hurricane Agnes in Pennsylvania. Another man with this surname was CEO of Bain Capital and lost his first Senate election to a five-time incumbent, Ted Kennedy. One man with this surname claimed he was || brainwashed in Vietnam; that man’s son was the only Republican Senator to support the impeachment of President Trump. For 10 points, what surname is shared by a Governor of Michigan and his son, the Republican nominee for the 2012 United States Presidential Election? ']
['Willy Loman  ', ' One character declares that for this man, "Attention, attention must be paid," and later Letta and Mrs. Forsythe abandon this character and his two companions at a particular restaurant. This man discusses how a relative "walked in the jungle and came out rich" while reminiscing the good old days of Dave Singleman with his boss, || Howard Wagner. This man's son burns a pair of sneakers after failing a math test, ending his football career. Linda, Biff, and Happy, all constitute the family that this man heads in the drama he appears in. For 10 points, name this man who commits suicide by crashing a car at the end of an Arthur Miller play. ']
