['Iraq    ', ' The defeat of a 1920 rebellion that brought this modern-day country’s two main religious groups  together sold the British on the concept of “aerial policing.” A ruler of this country supposedly imported 4,000 PlayStation 2 consoles to power military drones. A judo- loving king of this country was killed in the  14 July Revolution orchestrated by Abd al- Karim Qasim. Operation Opera destroyed a reactor in this  country. The UN’s ||  Oil-for-Food program provided humanitarian aid to this country in the 1990s. A coup in  this country once ruled by King Faisal II ousted other members of its Ba’ath party in favor of a dictator who launched the Al -Anfal genocide against the Kurds. For 10 points, name this country long ruled by Saddam  Hussein.   ']
['Ella Fitzgerald    ', ' This artist was the star performer on a song often called the “anthem” of the Jazz at the Philharmonic concert series.  The first release for Verve Records had this artist featured on Cole Porter’s “Let’s Do It,  Let’s Fall in Love,” part of eight “songbook” albums. This artist’s best- selling record was followed up by  the less successful “I Found My Yellow ||  Basket,” and had lyrics derived from a nursery rhyme. This artist  toured for three years as a bandleader following the death of Chick Webb and popularized the standard “A-Tisket, A-Tasket.” A verse on this woman’s performance of “How High the Moon” begins, “Boo bi yoo bi,” employing a technique also used by Louis Armstrong. For 10 points, name this “First Lady of Song” famed for her scat singing. ']
['helium    ', ' Mass loss to a binary partn er can form extremely low -mass white dwarfs composed primarily of this  element. A degenerate core of this element will uniformly heat up until 108 K  , at  which point it will produce an enormous pulse of energy that is quickly converted into thermal expansion. After exhausting this element in the core, stars leave the horizontal branch to become asymptotic ||  red giants. The mass percent of elements heavier than this element is the metallicity. Every loop  of the CNO cycle produce s one atom of this element, which is the input to the triple -alpha process. Main - sequence stars can fuse two hydrogen atoms together to form, for 10 points, what second- most -abundant  element in the universe? ']
['Sappho  of Lesbos   ', ' In the 19th century, both Alphonse de Lamartine   and Giacomo Leopardi   imagined “last songs” for this author. One poem by this author declares  “some men say the navy’s the loveliest thing … but I say it’s whatever you love.” In 2014, Dirk Obbink published a fragment of a poem by this author mentioning a relative named Charaxus. This author used namesake four -line stanzas in both the || “Brothers Poem” and in a poem that asks “don’t … crush down  my spirit” and “fight as my comrade.” That poem by this author addresses an “iridescent-throned” and “deathless” “child of Zeus.” “Ode to Anactoria” and “Ode to Aphrodite” are among the many fragments by — for 10 points — what ancient Greek female poet who lived on Lesbos? ']
['typeface    ', ' An International Corporation for the makers of these things was co- founded by Ed Benguiat , a man who names one of th ese things used by Stranger Things . One of these things not publicly  released until 2007 was used in a forgery that, when revealed, barred Pakistani politician Maryam Nawaz  Sharif from ever holding public office. One of these things called Perpetua was designed by sex criminal Eric Gill. Apple developed the || ttf   file format for these things. The Federal Highway Administration  mandates the use of one of these things called Highway Gothic that was designed for legibility. One of these things called Calibri became the new default in the Office suite in 2007. For 10 points, name these things that include Times New Roman.   ']
['Ottoman Emp eror     ', ' A “mad” holder of this title supposedly cast a cow’s butt in gold and attempted to find a woman whose rear matched it. Another holder of this title would disguise himself and decapitate any coffee drinkers. Some relatives of the holder of this title were placed under house arrest under the kafes  system. An  earlier holder of this title used a silken cord to strangle all 19 of his ||  brothers. The mother of this title’s  holder, the valide , held true power for about 100 years beginning in the 1530s. The holder of this title  maintained good relations with his military by each year giving them plates full of baklava made in Topkapi Palace. For 10 points, Mehmed II held what position whose holders ruled an empire from Istanbul? ']
['paint     ', ' A supposedly “non-poisonous” variety of this product that is actually poisonous causes Trina to amputate her fingers in Frank Norris’s McTeague . A character is selected as one of the “Solid Men of  Boston” as a result o f his success from selling a type of this product; that character is Silas Lapham.  While fighting Lucius Brockway, the protagonist of a different novel accidentally sets off a || boiler- room  explosion at a factory that makes this product. That character works for a company that produces a variant of this product marketed as “Liberty” but later leaves it to join the Brotherhood, as told in Ralph Ellison’s Invisible Man. Aunt Polly punished Tom Sawyer by forcing him to use, for 10 points, what substance to w hitewash their  fence? ']
['cholesterol   ', ' Fi·lip·in is used to stain for this substance when diagnosing for Type C Niemann –Pick disease, while its  intestinal absorption can be lowered by inhibiting NPC1 -like protein by ezeti·mibe. Receptors for EGF,  transferrin, and for a transporter for this compound are the most understood examples of clathrin - mediated endocytosis. This compound’s side chain is hydroxylated at the C20 and C22 positions and cleaved to produce preg·ne·no·lone, which can be acted on by 3 -beta HSD and 17 -alpha ||  hydroxylase.  HMG- CoA reductase is the rate-controlling enzyme in the production of this compound’s precursor  mevalonate; that reaction is inhibited by statins. Steroids are synthesized from, for 10 points, what compound transported by LDL?   ']
['Andrew Wyeth    ', ' William Loper’s prosthetic hook can be seen in this artist’s painti ng Snow Hill . This artist’s brother - in-law Peter Hurd taught him the egg -tempera technique he used to paint model and studio companion  Willard Snowden. A boy in earflaps runs down Kuerner’s   Hill in this artist’s Winter 1946 , the  first paintin g since his illustrator father was killed. Model Siri Erickson stands nude with her back to the  viewer in this artist’s Indian Summer , painted in ||  Cushing, Maine. In one of this artist’s paintings, a  woman in a pink dress crawls in the direction of the Olson House. Time  ran a cover story on this artist’s series  of paintings of his neighbor Helga Testorf. For 10 points, name this American realist painter of Christina’s  World .  ']
['meditation    ', ' A form of this activity motivated by “loving -kindness” has been popularized by Sharon Salzberg. In  addition to interfering with ordinary self -improvement, sloth and the other “five hindrances” specifically  hinder this activity. Th ings such as a decomposing corpse or a colored disc called a kasina can serve as a  “place of work” for this activity in the “Forest Tradition” of Thailand. During his nine years in a cave, || Bodhidharma developed a type of this practice called zazen . Stages called dhyāna make up this practice,  which may focus on “mindfulness of breathing.” This practice can help one achieve “right concentration” on the Eightfold Path. For 10 points, name this contemplative, calming mental exercise popular among Buddhists. ']
['Munich    ', ' H. V. Kaltenborn broadcast 102 dispatches on proceedings in this city, changing American expectations for radio news coverage. News of a document signed in this city foiled the Oster Conspiracy. That same document signed in this city came about following the issuance of the Godesberg   Memorandum. Édouard Dal adier signed a document in this city that the government of || Edvard  Beneš   considered a “betrayal.” A document signed in this city was read out in the UK at Heston  Aerodrome and then a second time at 10 Downing Street, where it was called a “peace for our time.” For 10 points, name this German city where Neville Chamberlain agreed to Adolf Hitler’s demands to cede the Czech Sudetenland to the Nazis. ']
['electric batteries    ', ' Supply constraints are driving NMC oxides used in these devices towards more N and less C. Potassium hydroxide that leaks from these devices will react with CO 2 to form white carbonates. Akira  Yoshino i ntroduced a design for these devices that avoids memory effects and was commercialized by  Sony. The buildup of gas in these devices can cause them to ||  pillow. The manufacture and subsequent  recycling of these devices provides the majority of both the US’s lead demand and its supply. Reusable examples of these devices have become more energy dense as nickel -cadmium varieties are replaced by  lithium -ion. For 10 points, name these portable devices that provide power and may be recharged.  ']
['meat      ', ' Jewish housewives in Manhattan’s Lower East side led a 1902 boycott of this good against the trust  Schwarzschild & Sulzberger. J. B. Sutherland’s invention of “reefers” for this good led  to the rise of the  Armor and Swift corporations. In a 1933 majority opinion, Charles Evans Hughes ruled that the NIRA   was unconstitutional in a case brought by a company selling this good, which was sold ||   “embalmed” to soldiers during the Spanish- American War. One author claimed that he “aimed for the public’s  heart” but “hit it in the stomach” regarding a 1906 exposé about Union Stockyards workers processing this good. For 10 points, Upton Sinclair’s The Jungle  details the horrible conditions  of workers processing what  foodstuff? ']
['Shylock  ', ' This character scandalizes a court by describing people who “cannot contain their urine” when they hear bagpipes. After this character defends himself by citing Jacob grazing the sheep of Laban, another character remarks,  “The devil can cite Scripture for his purpose.” This character is devastated when he  learns his daughter bought a monkey using his stolen turquoise ring. A speech addressed to this character begins “The quality of ||  mercy is not strain’d / It droppeth a s the gentle rain from heaven.” In a  monologue, this father of Jessica asks, “If you poison us, do we not die?” and “If you prick us, do we not bleed?” He loans 3,000 ducats to Antonio for a pound of flesh. For 10 points, name this Jewish moneylender from The Merchant of Venice. ']
['Hungarian    ', ' A piece titled for this adjective begins with a piano playing two quick C -sharps that are then echoed  by two quick thunderous C -sharp major chords. A 1946 Academy Award for Best Short Subject was  awarded to a Tom and Jerry  short featuring a piece titled for this adjective titled “The Cat Concerto.” A  collection of pieces titled for this adjective that were inspired by the verbunkos  dance utilized a form  cons isting of a slow ||  lassan first half and a fast friska  second half. A set of 19 virtuosic piano pieces titled  for this adjective expanded upon the compositional techniques utilized in the composer’s earlier Transcendental Études . For 10 points, name this adjective that describes a series of Franz Liszt rhapsodies inspired by his native  country’s music.   ']
['Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel     ', ' A wave of “analytic” reinterpretation of this p hilosopher’s thought centered at the University of  Pittsburgh produced Robert Brandom’s book A Spirit of Trust. An Introduction to the Reading of  this  philosopher that helped integrate his work into French theory was written by Alexandre Kojève. Bruno Baue r and Ludwig Feuerbach   were members of a group known as the ||  “Young”  followers of this philosopher, which secularized this philosopher’s concept of the geist   . Karl Marx’s  materialism was largely a reaction against this philoso pher’s idealism, although Marx’s theory of history was  greatly influenced by this philosopher’s dialectic. For 10 points, name this German philosopher of The  Phenomenology of Spirit .  ']
['the Biden s   ', ' Ben Schreckinger’s book on this family’s “Fifty -Year Rise to Power” highlights one member’s shady  relationships with hitman Frank Sheeran. One member of this family founded a private -equity firm with  former Abercrombie & Fitch model Devon Archer. Another member of this family works at Northern  Virginia Community College as an || English professor. In October 2020, Twitter and Facebook  controversially blocked a New York Post  story about a member of this family who served on the board of  Ukrainian energy firm Burisma. The patriarch of this family promised his dying son Beau not to challenge Hillary Clinton in 2016. For 10 points, name this family of son Hunter and First Lady Jill. ']
['Norwegian Wood   ', ' This novel was published in two volumes with red and green covers, the latter referencing a woman whose name means “green,” as preserved in Alfred Birnbaum’s translation. This novel was adapted from a story published in the author’s later collection Blind Willow, Sleeping Woman , titled “Firefly.” After  flying to Hamburg, this novel’s protagonist reminisces about a friend who committed s uicide at 17. This  novel’s protagonist, whose roommate is the neurotic cartographer ||  “Storm Trooper,” visits a woman in  the mountain sanatorium where she stays with Reiko  . In this novel, Midori and Naoko    are recalled by Toru Watanabe   after he hears a certain track from Rubber Soul . For 10 points,  name this Haruki Murakami novel titled for a Beatles song.   ']
['bulls   ', ' A hero on a quest to kill one of these animals received shelter from an old woman named Hecale  . A bronze torture device in the shape of one of these animals, owned by the tyrant Phalaris   , was legendarily used to roast criminals to death. The river god Achelous    lost a body part while fighting Heracles in the form of one of these animals. A fresco discovered at the Palace of ||  Knossos depicts athletes “leaping” over one of these animals. After Poseidon sent one of these  animals to Crete to be sacrificed, King Minos kept it for himself; outraged, Poseidon made Minos’s wife fall in love with it. For 10 points, name this type of animal whose union with the Cretan queen Pasiphaë   produced the Minotaur.  ']
['volume    ', ' An integral with respect to this quantity is set equal to zero in the “equal area rule” following from Maxwell’s construction. An expansion in powers of one over this extensive quantity comprises the virial equation of state. In one equation, “n squared divided by this quantity squared” is multiplied by “a” to give a correction due to intermolecular forces. An “excluded” type of this quantity is symbolized || “b” in one equation of state. This quantity is held constant in the usual statement of Gay- Lussac’s law. The van der  Waals equation accounts for atoms having nonzero values for this quantity. According to the ideal gas law, “n R T” equals this quantity times pressure. For 10 points, name this quantity measured in meters cubed. ']
['Cyprus     ', ' A civil war in this country is the setting of a recent novel about its “missing trees” and caused the  resort of Varosha to close for 50 years. The editor of the right -wing Makhi  newspaper was briefly made  president of this country. The United Kingdom retai ned bases at Akrotiri and Dhekelia following this  country’s independence. In 1971, General Grivas returned to this country to advocate a unification policy called || enosis opposed by Archbishop Makarios. In 2004, a two-state solution in this country was rejected prior to its joining the EU. The Green Line in this country divides a portion of it only recognized from Ankara. For 10 points, name this Mediterranean island country mostly divided between its Turkish and Greek populations. ']
