['diffraction    ', ' The result of this phenomenon is concentrated by using the Littrow configuration for an “echelette”   or “blazed” device. James Gregory’s observations of how a bird’s feather caused this  phenomenon can be explained by noting that it affects opaque objects and identically shaped holes  similarly, by Babinet’s   principle. The ||  far-field and near -field versions of this phenomenon  are described respectively by the Fraunhofer  and Fresnel   equations. This  phenomenon is created by a device with many parallel grooves called a “grating.” This phenomenon creates a  maxi mum when n times wavelength equals “2 d sine theta,” where d is the gap between the slits light passes  through. For 10 points, name this phenomenon in which light bends as it goes through a gap.  ']
['gospel    ', ' A “Coalition” of churches in the Reformed tradition named for this concept was founded by D. A. Carson and Tim Keller. In Romans, Paul proclaims that h e is not ashamed of this concept, for it is the  “power of God for salvation to everyone who believes.” This word is derived from the Old English translation of the Greek term euangélion   . It is not “soul” or “spirituals,” but this  word names a genre of religious ||  music that broadly incorporates call and response and that may be sung in  large choirs. The Great Commission is the command of Jesus to preach this concept, which means “good news,” to all parts of the world. For 10 points, the first four books of the New Testament are known by what term, each  “according” to Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John?  ']
['Hans Christian Andersen     ', ' A philosopher compatriot of this author compared his work to an “elegiac duodecimal scale” in an essay on him “as a Novelist.” This author perhaps inspired Uriah Heep when he crashed at Charles Dickens’s house for five weeks. This author’s love for Jenny Lind inspired his story in which the Emperor is saved from death by the song of the title nightingale. This author’s cobbler father inspired his story in which Karen dances herself to ||  death while wearing the title “Red Shoes.” Five sisters exchange  their long hair for a dagger in a story by this author, in which the protagonist turns into an ethereal figure made of foam after a Sea -Witch gives her legs in exchange for her voice. For 10 points, name this author of “The  Little Mermaid.”   ']
['Philip II  of Macedon   ', ' During this man’s reign, Polyidus   of Thessaly improved the arrow catapult by adding  horsehair. This ruler allo wed men from any tribe to be part of his hypaspist  guard. Tomb  II at Vergina is believed to belong to this man and was modeled after Cyrus the Great’s tomb at Pasargadae. At Olympia, this man erected a circular building to celebrate his vi ctory at the Battle of ||  Chaeronea. This king established the League of Corinth after winning a military campaign that inspired the orator Demosthenes to deliver several speeches. This king may have been murdered by his wife Olympias in a scheme involving the future victor at the Battle of Issus. For 10 points, name this King of Macedonia, the father of Alexander the Great. ']
['lockpicking    ', ' An MIT guide to this ac tivity by “Ted the Tool” describes the Flatland Model. Yeggs specialize in this  activity. During London’s Great Exhibition, an American named Alfred Charles Hobbs successfully  engaged in this activity after spotting a device in a shop window designed by Jo seph Bramah. Technology  such as BumpStop can guard against the non- destructive form of this activity. A tension || wrench is  commonly used in this activity against pin tumbler designs. A Bic Pen was famously used to perform this activity on a U -shaped dev ice with the brand name Kryptonite. Many cars now have an immobilizer to prevent  hot-wiring and this other activity. For 10 points, name this activity that can be used to open secured doors without a key. ']
['Egypt      ', ' An author from this country described how g irls’ education was “a slow process of annihilation” in  The Hidden Face of Eve, and described Firdaus’s   murder of her pimp in Woman at Point  Zero . In a novel from this country ending with a typhoid epidemic, a character divorces Maryam, whos e  initial love interest was a law student who dies at a protest. A novelist from this country was nearly assassinated after allegorizing the three ||  Abrahamic religions. After leaving the house without her  husband’s permission, Amina is hit by a car in a novel from this country about the family of Ahmad Abd al-Jawad. The Children of Gebelawi  and Sugar Street  are by Naguib Mahfouz, an author from – for 10 points –  what country, the setting of the Cairo Trilogy ?  ']
['actinide s    ', ' These elements are extracted after being mixed with tributyl phosphate and dissolved in nitric acid in the PUREX process. Oxides of these elements are the typical contents of MOX fuel. Repeated heating of oxides of these elements through vol·oxidation helps reprocess them while capturing undesirable contaminants. The majority of so- called fertile materials consist of these elements. || Pitchblende is an ore  of one of these elements that can be leached out to form yellowcake. Another of these elements ionizes air in a commonly used smoke detector. One of these elements is “depleted” when it has a low concentration of its fissile 235 isotope. The 5f orbitals are valence orbitals in, for 10 points, what group of elements found below the  lanthanides? ']
['monopolies    ', ' Matt Stoller’s Subs tack devoted to these entities often highlights “weird” ones such as in cheerleading.  In an article titled for measuring these entities, Abba Lerner proposed an index where these entities have  values closest to 1. A paper by Lina Khan called for a more vigorous application of the essential facilities  doctrine that was developed for these entities. A markup method based on ||  elasticity of demand for  different products was applied to these entities by Marcel Boiteux   and originally developed by  Frank Ramsey. Utility companies are the paradigmatic examples of the “natural” type of these firms. For 10 points, name these companies that might be broken up via antitrust regulation. ']
['steel    ', ' This material was the key ingredient in over 100 high- quality objects attributed to a Frankish man  name d Ulfberht. Michael Romanov commissioned an object made from the bulat  form of this material.  This was the most valuable material made in facilities called takadono. A type of this material called  Tamahagane  was essential in objects made by the Bizen Schoo l. Cakes of this material called Wootz were  widely exported from Southern India. A class of people were mandated to go around with ||  two objects  made from this material via the daishō and typically followed the Bushido code. The Damascus form of this  material was widely used to make weapons. For 10 points, name this metal whose production was  revolutionized by the Bessemer process.   ']
['the moon    ', ' Photographer Lewis Rutherfurd built a special device to improve on the pioneering photos of this object by Warren de la Rue. This alphabetically later title object is placed within Zone VII   in a  photograph taken en route to the Ahwahnee Ho tel. That same photographer progressively increased the  contrast to make this object stand out more in a photo taken in Hernandez, New Mexico. An auction record for a photograph was set by an Edward Steichen photo where this object provides the ||  light f or  a landscape of a Westchester County pond. This object appears in the top- left of a celebrated Ansel Adams  photograph of Yosemite's Half Dome. For 10 points, name this object on which Buzz Aldrin took an iconic photo of his boot print. ']
['Myanmar    ', ' After a constitutional reform in this country, Hillary Clinton’s State Department handed out box sets of The  West Wing  to teach government officials about democracy. A 1983 bombing in this country killed  multiple cabinet members under South Korean dictator Chun Doo -hwan. It’s not Afghanistan, but this  country’s Shan State, which is in the Golden Triangle, has be en a major producer of ||  opium. Students  in this country's capital organized the 8-8-88 protests. This country partly democratized under dictator Than Shwe, but the Nobel- winning leader of the National League for Democracy was prevented from serving as  Prime Minister. For 10 points, name this country whose de facto  leader Aung San Suu Kyi was overthrown in a  2021 coup. ']
['hail   ', ' This phenomenon classically presents with colocalizatio n of high Z and low or negative Z dr .  Mie  scattering between this phenomenon and the ground is so intense that a distinct “spike”  artifact appears on Doppler radar. Cannons are occasionally used to ward off this phenomenon, which produces hundreds of millions in crop damage each year. Accretion at high altitudes contributes to the distinct || layered appearance of this phenomenon. Smaller examples of this phenomenon are often lumped together with graupel   . This phenomenon is suspended in the updrafts of strong thunderstorms  before growing large enough to reach the ground. For 10 points, name this form of precipitation whose stones have a diameter of at least 5 millimeters.   ']
['Franz Joseph Haydn   ', ' The death of this composer’s close friend Marianne von Genzinger inspired his final piece for solo  piano, his Variations in F Minor . Another piece by this composer includes the chorus “The heavens are  telling the glory of God,” and opens with a section that switches from C minor to C major on the word “light.” Like Johann Nepomuk Hummel, this composer responded to the invention of the keyed trumpet by writing a trumpet || concerto in E-flat major. One of this composer’s Erdödy  string quartets provided the  melody of Germany’s national anthem. This composer wrote 104 symphonies, which earned him the nickname “The Father of the Symphony.” For 10 points, name this Austrian composer of the Farewell  and Surprise  symphonies. ']
['The Red Badge of Courage   ', ' The making of John Huston’s Hollywood adaptation of this novel is chronicled in Lillian Ross’s book Picture . Paul Auster’s biography Burning Boy  describes how the success of this novel got its author hired  to cover the Spanish- American War. After some men in this novel cast aside their knapsacks, a tall  character declares, “You can now eat and shoot... That’s all you want to do.” The protagonist of this novel is comforted by the sight of a || squirrel ru nning away from him shortly before being hit with a rifle  butt. In this novel, Jim Conklin sustains fatal injuries during a battle that its protagonist retreats from despite his desire to earn and wear the title mark. For 10 points, name this Civil War novel by Stephen Crane. ']
['cotton gin     ', ' A self- feeding antecedent to these devices invented by Joseph Eve greatly cut down on hernia risk.  Hodgen Holmes’s patent for one of these devices u sing saw teeth was nullified. Matilda Gage claimed that  the true inventor of these devices was Catharine Littlefield Greene. Because the wire teeth in these devices caused damage, they were typically not used on ||  Sea Island variants of one product. The inventor  of these devices became rich after securing a government contract to make interchangeable muskets. Prior to the invention of these devices, it took upwards of 16 months to process a 500-pound bale of a certain good. Removing the seeds from a crop widely used to make textiles was made much easier by, for 10 points, what machines invented by Eli Whitney? ']
['medicine    ', ' A Roman god of this domain was introduced to the city in 293 BCE and honored at a temple on Tiber Island. Relief sculptures of detached body parts were dedicated to a god of this domain, who had a ritual site in Epidaurus where people would be visited while sleeping. Machaon was the ch ild of a god of this  domain. The ||  Cyclopes who forged Zeus’ thunderbolts were slain in revenge for the death of a god of this  domain, who was the son of Coronis. The Greek god of this domain, a son of Apollo, was killed for reviving the dead. That god of this domain carried a staff surrounded by two snakes and was the father of Panacea. For 10 points, name this domain of the Greek god Asclepius. ']
['whale s   ', ' One theory holds that the death of these animals creates “stepping stones” between chemo·synthetic  habitats. Polychaetes   of the genus Osedax feed on lipids in these animals’ skeletons, and are  known as “zombie worms.” These animals’ corpses are the densest source of carbon in a place whose inhabitants also eat a form of “snow.” A fat- filled melon organ in these animals’ forehead is used to focus  sound for ||  echolocation. Some of these animals called rorquals use their stretchable mouths to “lunge feed,”  scooping up plankton that they filter through fibrous structures made of keratin. These animals are divided into toothed and baleen subgroups. For 10 points, name these large marine mammals, whose blue variety is the largest known animal. ']
['Robert Burns     ', ' A long narrative poem by this poet describes “what fearful pranks ensue” on the title night of “Halloween.” Robert Sempill originated a six -line stanza sometimes refer red to as this poet’s “stanza”  that mixes four rhyming lines of tetrameter with two rhyming lines of dimeter. A poem by this author exclaims, “Oh, would some Power give us the gift / To see ourselves as others see us!” in its final stanza. This poet declared, “I’m truly ||  sorry Man’s dominion / Has broken Nature’s social union” in a poem  subtitled “On Turning her up in her Nest, with the Plough.” That poem about a “tim’rous beastie” includes the lines “The best laid schemes o’ Mice an’ Men / Gang aft agle y   .” For 10 points, name this Scottish  poet of “To a Louse” and “To a Mouse.”   ']
['Yemen    ', ' This country’s citizens would be the most impacted by an oil spill  from the derelict F.S.O. Safer . In  April 2022, a president of this country ruling in exile from Lebanon resigned in favor of a presidential council. The Southern Transitional Council has called to restore a partition of this country that ended in 1990. In 2020, foreign agents agitated for the independence of this country’s biodiverse island of ||   Socotra. A blockade of this country by its larger northern neighbor caused a massive cholera outbreak in regions controlled by the Iran -backed Ansar Allah. For 10 points, a Houthi government controls Sanaa in what country  fighting a war with its northern neighbor of Saudi Arabia?   ']
['Mary Cassatt    ', ' This artist had to rely on a photo to finish a pastel portrait of Louisine Havemeyer, a close friend whom this artist advised on collecting art. A print by Kitagawa Utamaro inspired this artist’s drypoint image of a woman bending over and adjusting her hair titled The Coiffure . In the same year that this  artist completed the mural Modern Woman  for the Chicago World’s Fair, this artist painted a man in a  black Catalan- style beret and ultramarine sash rowing a yellow || oar. This artist’s mentor Edgar Degas  admired a painting where an “English nurse” places a child’s feet into a basin of water titled The Bath . For 10  points, The Boating Party  is a painting by what American Impressionist fond of mother- daughter scenes?  ']
['Bay of Pigs  Invasion  ', ' During this event, the shell Gibraltar Steamship Company used Radio Swan to broadcast the cryptic  message “The fish is red.” James Donovan convinced one party in this event to accept food and medicine in lieu of cash fo r a prisoner exchange. This event’s participants handed a flag featuring a blue soldier  hunched with a rifle to the sitting president as part of a welcome -home ceremony at the Orange Bowl.  Operation ||  Mongoose was launched one year after this event. Allen Dulles resigned in the aftermath of this  event, during which Brigade 2506 attempted an amphibious landing at Playa Girón    with help  from the CIA. For 10 points, the Kennedy administration unsuccessfully attempted to topple the Castro re gime  in what 1961 invasion? ']
