['hash functions   ', ' Swaps minimize the difference between the output of these functions and the final index in a method  named for  Robin Hood. The optimal number of these functions is the logarithm of the false positive  probability for a Bloom filter. When the output of these functions is more uniformly distributed, the probing used for open addressing goes faster. The integrity of a  download may be verified by comparing  the file's ||  checksum against the output of one of these functions. Birthday attacks target these functions by  finding inputs that produce collisions. Use of these functions allow buckets in a namesake data structur e to be  looked up in constant time. For 10 points, name these one-way functions used to implement namesake tables. ']
['Mughal  Empire    ', ' A ruler of this dynasty is seated on an hourglass- shaped throne in a painting that also features two  angels and a portrait of King James I of England copied from a work by John de Critz. Another ruler of this dynasty commissioned fifty -two paintings depicting fables told by a parrot to its owner. A complex  built by this dynasty contains a "paradise garden" in a layout known as char bagh , as well as a large ||   reflecting pool. The artist Basawan was employed by a ruler from this dynasty and helped bring Western techniques to miniature painting. A monumental, octagonal tomb commissioned by a ruler of this dynasty has a pointed white dome that resembles a crown. For 10 points, name this Indian dynasty whose ruler Shah Jahan built the Taj Mahal.   ']
['Kingdom of Hawaii   ', ' Under this country's 1840 constitution, a third of representatives to its House of Nobles were women until an 1850 amendment limited voting to men. In 1849, Louis Tromelin led an attack on this country's capital to secure religious rights for Catholics. A monarch of this country tightly restricted the export of sandalwood to China and abolished its "eating taboo" from its traditional kapu  system. In 1843, this  country was the first ||  indigenous government to be officially recognized by a European nation. Castle &  Cooke was one of the Big Five sugar producers in this country that benefited from its 1887 "Bayonet Constitution." This coun try was ruled by monarchs such as Kalakaua  . For 10 points, name  this Pacific island kingdom, now a US state. ']
['surface tension   ', ' The Tolman length describes how this quantity varies between a system with a finite and infinite  radius. Pressure difference equals negative this quantity times curvature. A polysorbate sometimes called Tween is a non -ionic compound used to reduce this quantity. The differ ence between two forms of this  quantity plus a third form of it times the cosine of the ||  contact angle equals zero, per Young's equation.  This quantity is sometimes given in dated units of dynes per centimeter, but is now reported in newtons per meter, reflecting how it is the force required to expand an interface's length. Surfactants lower, for 10 points, what quantity that measures a liquid-air boundary's cohesion and lets bugs walk on water? ']
['Ibrahim    ', ' In the Surah al -Baqarah, this prophet is asked to slaughter four birds and place their remains on four  different hills when he questions God's ability to resurrect beings. This prophet's namesake maqam    is a golden cylinder believed to contain his footprints. This prophet, who survived being  catapulted into a fire, won an argument with King Nimrod after the king could not make the sun rise  from the West. During || Hajj, many Muslims run to and from the hills of Safa and Marwa to commemorate an action of this prophet's wife, Hajar. The holiday 'Eid al- Adha celebrates the day that this builder of the Kaaba  obeyed God's command to sacrifice his son. For 10 points, name this prophet, the father of Ishmael and Isaac.   ']
['The Plague    ', ' In a 2021 translation by Laura Marris, one character in this novel declares that "there is more to admire in humans than there is to scorn." An illegal nighttime swim in  this novel involves a character  whose diary records two streetcar drivers disputing the death of Camps   , and an old man on a  balcony spitting on cats. A clerk in this novel, who constantly rewrites the first sentence of his book, is called || Jos eph Grand. The death of a judge's son in this novel causes Father Paneloux   to  reconsider whether the title event is God's retribution. The journalist Raymond Rambert   sees dead  rats around Oran at the beginning of this novel, which features Dr. Bernard Rieux . For 10 points,  name this Albert Camus   novel about a disease outbreak.  ']
['Chesapeake  Bay   ', ' It's not a river, but three women operated the Dancing Molly  on this body of water during the Oyster  Wars. A bridge- tunnel named for this body of water had to get around opposition that it would affect  naval traffic at Sewell's Point. Numerous fossils have been found on the western shore of this body of water at the Calvert Cliffs. A seasoning named for this body of water has been marketed by McCormick for use on ||  crab cakes. The French won the Battle of the Capes on this body of water, making Yorktown  decisive. The eastern border of this body of water is the Delmarva Peninsula. Half of this estuary's freshwater inflow comes from the Susquehanna River. For 10 points, name this large estuary that forms the coastline of much of Maryland. ']
['customer s   ', ' These people are sub -divided into categories such as "innovators" and "laggards" in Geoffrey A.  Moore's book Crossing the Chasm . An "ultimate question" for assessing these people was invented by  Fred  Reichheld. "Non" versions of these people exist in a different market category according to Six  Sigma theory. These people can be divided into "detractors" and "promoters" with a NPS survey. The acronym ||  CAC refers to how much money a firm initially sp ends on these people. "Relations" with these  people can be managed with CRM software such as that offered by Salesforce. These people's "lifetime value" to a firm can be increased through loyalty marketing. For 10 points, name these people who according to some retail maxims are "always right."   ']
['Qaddafi    ', ' Sir Howard Davies resigned due to ties between members of this family and the London School of  Economics. An LSE graduate from this family was photographed surrounded by gunmen from the Zintan Brigades. Another member of this family built a 1,750 -mile-long irrigation system called the  Great Man -Made River. T hat same "Brotherly Leader" from this family outlined his socialist theories of  the || "Third International". The patriarch of this family agreed to pay over two billion dollars to the families  of the Lockerbie Bombing victims. That patriarch of this family hid out in a drainage pipe in Sirte before being killed. For 10 points, give this surname of the author of the Green Book , a dictator who was killed in 2011  during the Libyan Civil War. ']
['Jhumpa Lahiri   ', ' A character created by this author drops out of Cornell and moves back home to work at a laundromat after becoming an alcoholic. Two people at a tea stall bicker about who will take Tina to the toilet at the start of a story by this author of "Only Goodness." Twinkle finds many Christian trinkets in her Connecticut home in this author's story "This Blessed House." A couple mourns a stillborn baby during nightly ||  power outages in a story by this author of Unaccustomed Earth. This author wrote a story in  which Mrs. Das accidentally causes monkeys to attack Bobby, who is saved by Mr. Kapasi, the title translator in a doctors' office. For 10 points, name this Indian-American author who included "A Temporary Matter" in her collection Interpreter of Maladies.  ']
['Pullman  Company   ', ' This company popularized a compact pan with straight sides and a sliding lid for baking pain de m ie.  According to historian Larry Tye, this company was largely responsible for introducing the practice of tipping by forcing its African -American workers to rely on them. Along with Bayard Rustin, a leader of a  union for workers at this company helped pla n the 1941 March on Washington. Richard ||  Olney issued  a federal injunction against a strike of employees at this company after John Peter Altgeld refused to allow federal troops to break the strike up. A. Philip Randolph formed a union for workers at this company, which hired porters to work on its luxury "palace cars." For 10 points, Eugene Debs led an 1894 strike against what railroad company? ']
['skin  ', ' Defects in nucleotide excision repair greatly increase the risk of cancer of this organ. Cells in this organ are induced to differentiate through a steep calcium gradient. Cells in the superficial layers of this organ undergo a form of programmed cell death called cornification. The mnemonic ABCDE represents signs of a cancer of this organ, including asymmetry and irregular borders. ||  Retinoic acid is used to  inhibit production of a structural protein in this organ formed from type I and II intermediate filaments. Cancers of this organ are classified as basal cell, squamous cell, or melanomas. Keratin is found in the epidermis of, for 10 points, what protective organ? ']
['Friedrich Nietzsch e  ', ' This author described the paradoxical task of forming a society from forgetful "man-animals" as "the  breeding of an animal who makes promises." A spirit becomes a camel, then a lion, in a fable included in a book by this author in which the appearances of a snake and eagle at a cave bookend a period of "down -going." This thinker imagined a flock of sheep defining the word "evil" based on their grudge  against birds of prey in a parable for how ||  values are born from ressentiment . This philosopher described  mankind as a rope between animals and a future stage of independently minded "overmen." For 10 points, The Genealogy of Morals  is by what German philosopher, who envisioned the Übermensch  in Thus Spoke  Zarathusra ?  ']
['The Thinker    ', ' The only plaster cast of this sculpture is on display at the Maryhill Museum in rural Washington and is dedicated to Loie Fuller. The artist stares at this sculpture in a studio photo combined from two negatives by Edward Steichen which also features the artist's Monument to Victor Hugo . The first cast of  this sculpture, commissioned by Constantine Alexander Ionides, unusually includes a Florentine cap that more directly references its original title of " The ||  Poet." The figure from this sculpture appears directly  below The Three Shades  in a large sculpture that also features Ugolino and His Children and The Kiss. For 10  points, name this sculpture adapted from The Gates of Hell  of a man holding his fist to his chin, by Auguste  Rodin. ']
['Dylan Thomas    ', ' Seamus Heaney referred to this poet as “durable” in an essay describing  how one of his poems centers  on “a vivid figure of the union of opposites.” Another poem by this author declares that corpses that “sink through the sea … shall rise again” and claims that “though lovers be lost love shall not.” This  author described “bli nd eyes” that could “blaze like ||  meteors and be gay” in a poem in which he claims  that “grave men, near death” can “see with blinding sight.” That villanelle by this poet of “And Death Shall  have no Dominion” urges, “Rage, rage against the dying of the light,” leading some to believe that he addressed that poem to his dying father. For 10 points, name this Welsh poet of “Do Not Go Gentle into That Good Night.” ']
['Dionysus    ', ' The wife of the chief archon married this god in secret during the An·thes·teria festival. Another festival for this god included a huge procession called the pompe   , in which citizens carried a  statue of this god "Eleuthereus"  . A mystery cult centered on this deity ended with  an ōmophagia , or ritual feast, and involved followers who waved ||  thyrsoi .  Athenian men carried around the ritual phalluses of this god during a festival in which judges determined which of three poets had produced the best tetralogy. This god, who punished the Theban king Pentheus, was born from Zeus' thigh. For 10 points, name this Greek god of theater and wine. ']
['being faster  than the speed of light      ', ' Particles with this property are the subject of the "reinterpretation principle" proposed by Gerald  Feinberg. A so -called "apparent" version of this property arises in Alcubierre  drives.  In the Scharnhorst   effect, particles develop this property in between Casimir plates. In  2011, the OPERA collaboration claimed to have found neutrinos with this property. This property corresponds to a worldline at less than 45 degrees to the space axis of a ||  Minkowski     diagram, and to an imaginary Lorentz factor. Tachyons   have this property, which is thought to  be impossible because achieving it would involve getting past an asymptotic divergence in mass. For 10 points, name this property in which particles exceed around 300 million meters per second. ']
['Las Vegas    ', ' In a concert band piece named for this city, a French horn imitates the ferocious roar of the title monster. In that piece by Eric Whitacre, this city is the setting of a campy monster movie where it is attacked by Godzilla. A musician who mainly performed in this city was nicknamed "Mr. Showmanship" for wearing over- the-top costumes like a 150 -pound mink cape and playing a jewel -encrusted piano. That  pianist, || Liberace   , established this city's tradition of concert residencies. In the late 1960s,  Colonel Tom Parker signed a contract with this city's International Hotel that locked Elvis Presley into regularly performing here. For 10 points, name this city where musicians often play on a boulevard nicknamed "The Strip."   ']
['Native Son   ', ' "An Unconscious Determinant" in this novel was explored by anti- comics psychologist Fredric  Wertham, who opened the Lafargue public he alth clinic with its author. The protagonist of this novel  "liked to hear of how Japan was conquering China." In a pivotal scene in this novel, a journalist grabs a shovel from its protagonist to clear smoke from a room. A character in this novel "admits t he possibility  of his being subhuman" according to the essay ||  "Everybody's Protest Novel." This novel's protagonist  says "what I killed for, I am" to his Communist lawyer Boris Max and achieves "something that was all his own" after murdering Bess. Mary  Dalton is accidentally suffocated in, for 10 points, what novel about Bigger  Thomas by Richard Wright? ']
['storming of the Bastille    ', ' In 1880, Benjamin Raspail led a campaign to honor this event as a political com promise over more  radical options. For decades, the site of this event was guarded by a large plaster elephant. In the immediate aftermath of this event, astronomer Jean Sylvain Bailly was appointed the city's first mayor. Three days before this event, the author of the best -selling Report to the King was dismissed as finance  minister. A cook used a kitchen knife to cut off the head of the || Marquis de Launay during this event. This event was sparked by sans- culottes anger at the dismissal of Jacques Neck er and targeted a structure that  held just seven prisoners. For 10 points, name this event, celebrated each July 14th as the beginning of the French Revolution. ']
['Orhan Pamuk    ', ' This author was accused of ridiculing his national flag in a novel in which Bonkowski experiences the  title Nights of Plague . Maureen Freely translated this author's Nobel lecture "My Father's Suitcase,"  which discusses a form of melancholy called huzun. This one -time partner of Kiran Desai was accused of  plagiarism for a novel in which a scholar is made to design a war machine for Hoja. This author, who wrote a novel in which a performance of The ||  Spanish Tragedy  is used to free the radical Blue, was tried  under Article 301 after acknowledging the Armenian genocide. In a novel by this author, Ka investigates the suicides of many "headscarf girls." The White Castle  and Snow  are by, for 10 points, what controversial Turkish  author? ']
