['Abraham Lincoln  and Stephen A. Douglas     ', ' Two answers required . Harry Jaffa analyzed the "crisis" surrounding an event involving these two  politicians using the Socratic method. One of these two politicians gave a speech denouncing the other by  saying that "a living dog is better than a dead lion." The walk- out of William Yancey's "fire eaters"  helped one of these politicians defeat the other in a presidential election. One of these politicians conceded to the other that the Supreme Court could not stop a ||  popular ban on slavery as part of the Freeport  Doctrine. In 1858, one of these two politicians stated that a "house divided cannot stand" while running for the other's senate seat. For 10 points, name these two politicians, an Illinois Senator and future President who debated each other over slavery. ']
['Seattle   ', ' A massive public transportation project in this city is curren tly constructing the world's first light rail  line over a floating bridge. In 2020, a major bridge linking the main part of this city to its western neighborhoods was closed due to cracks likely stemming from the 2001 Nisqually Earthquake. This city's little -used monorail was refurbished in 2021 to service Climate Pledge Arena, a new ||  hockey arena. That  monorail in this city passes through a museum designed by Frank Gehry. A large automobile tunnel now runs underneath this city's popular Pike Place Marke t. The "Day 1" corporate campus in this city contains the "Bezos  Balls" and serves as Amazon's headquarters. For 10 points, name this city home to the Space Needle.   ']
['ionized     ', ' Bremsstrahlung is the predominant mode of radiation in material with this property, whose presence defines H II    regions. Material abruptly loses this property with sufficient distance from O -type  stars, which are the centers of most planetary nebulae. The loss of this property at the start of the recombination epoch allowed photons to decouple from matter and form the CMB. The observation of || iron with an extreme form of this property was mistaken for a new element in the Sun's corona. The  interstellar medium is  filled with atoms with this property in the form of plasma. For 10 points, name this  property of atoms which have lost some or all of their electrons. ']
['Augustus    ', ' The Forbes Type refers to a distinct style of hair locks in portraits of this man. A full -length portrait  statue of this man has him wearing a breastplate that depicts the return of some aquilae . Richard Meier  built a museum for a monument honoring this man whose East Wall depicts a bellatrix sitting on a pile of  enemy weapons. This patron of the Ten Books on Architecture is honored in a peace monument called the || Ara Pacis and is depicted in a sculpture found  at Prima Porta. Suetonius recounts how this man converted a  capital of brick into a city of marble. The Res Gestae was engraved on pillars at this man's Mausoleum, which contains the body of his wife Livia Drusilla. For 10 points, name this first Roman Emperor. ']
['A Doll's House      ', ' A sequel titled for this play "Repaired" was written by Israel Zangwill and Karl Marx's daughter  Eleanor. A character from thi s play is likely to "fall into degradation" according to a 1923 speech  analogizing that character to the nation of China. A character from this play starts work in a factory in an Elfriede Jelinek    sequel subtitled for another play by the same author, The ||   Pillars of Society . A character from this play who gets nicknamed "little squirrel" had earlier funded her  husband's recuperation in Italy with a forged bond, leading to her blackmail by Krogst ad. That character in this  play leaves her bank manager husband in its last act by slamming the door. For 10 points, Nora Helmer leaves home in what Henrik Ibsen play? ']
['sacred mountain s   ', ' A Chinese poet named for this sort of place and his sidekick Shide  are honored as  incarnations of bodhisattvas  . The nine schools of Seon  Buddhism in Korea are  named for these places. Members of the syncretic Shugendo sect are said to "prostrate" themselves before these places. One of these places called Hiei is the site of Enryaku -ji, the center of the Tenda i  school. Mandalas often ||  center on one of these places that also inspired the design of temples like  Borobudur. In Buddhism, the axis mundi is one of these places called Sumeru that is identified with a real one named Kailash. Shaolin is one of the many monasteries built on this sort of place. For 10 points, name these geographical features, which are often sacred in the Himalayas.   ']
['Alexander Pope   ', ' In a poem by this author, the bookseller Edmund Curll falls into a pool of excrement during a race, but wins a later contest by letting out the highest stream of urine. That poem by this author ends with the "great Anarch" restoring the "d read Empire" of Chaos before "universal darkness buries all." The  main character of a poem by this author forgets a warning to be wary of men after being licked awake by her lapdog Shock. A poem by this author identifies the playwright ||  Colley Cibber as the Prince of  Dullness. In a poem by this author, the Baron overcomes the sylphs protecting Belinda to perform the title action with a pair of scissors. For 10 points, name this 18th century British author of the mock epic poems The Dunciad and The Rape of the Lock .  ']
['diamonds   ', ' German colonialist August Stauch made his fortune in this industry in the boom town of Lüderitz  . One of the most famous products from this ind ustry was first documented by French  traveler Jean Baptiste Tavernier after visiting a place called Kollur on the Krishna River. In 18th century Europe, the term "Golconda" was synonymous with this industry. A town originally called New Rush with strict id entity card requirements was a center of this industry and contained the ||  Big Hole.  In 2003, companies in this industry agreed to the Kimberley Process to try to divert proceeds from warlords. Cecil Rhodes gained control of this industry through his De Beers company. For 10 points, name this industry whose products are commonly added to engagement rings. ']
['thunder storm s    ', ' A D minor piano sonata nicknamed for this phenomenon introduces three contrasting motifs within its  first six measures: a largo  ascending A major arpeggio followed by a fast allegro theme in its opening  bars. This phenomenon is depicted in another piece by the unison notes "G, F, E -flat, D" descending over  repeated sixteenth -note Gs. The composer of that piece described in an accompanying sonnet how the ||   "gnats and flies buzz furiously around" a shepherd who fears this phenomenon. An F minor fourth movement representing this phenomenon is followed by an F major "Shepherd's Song" that depicts a "Merry Gathering of Country Folk" in Ludwig van Beethoven's Pastoral  Symphony. The third movement of "Summer" from  Antonio Vivaldi's The Four Seasons  depicts, for 10 points, what type of weather?  ']
['thermonuclear fusion  reactors    ', ' Michel Laberge  , who is continuing the tradition of building these devices in Culham,  Oxfordshire, gave a TED talk comparing his device to a synchronized hammer strike. A Q -value of 1,  called the "break even" level, has yet to be reached by one of these devices made by the NIF  ,  which applies the world's most powerful laser to a hohlraum  . A large one of these devices  being built in the south of France is called ||  ITER  . These devices seek to exceed the Coulomb    barrier via inertial or magnetic confinement. A magnetic field confines plasma in a toroidal shape  in one of these devices based on a tokamak. For 10 points, name these devices that seek to produce energy through the combination of atomic nuclei, contrast ed with fission reactors.   ']
['Grand Canal    ', ' A "b arbarous" overseer on this project was said to have eaten a two -year- old child each day. In the  1850s, this project was badly damaged during the Northern Expedition, with workers on it forming the Green Gang and controlling the illegal salt trade. Matteo Ricci wrote admiringly about how this project enabled the system for collecting grain taxes known as caoyun   . Song Li came up with a  system of || sluice gates while working on this project. This project was carried out simultaneously with the reconstruction of Luoyang under Emperor Yang of Sui. This project was the first of its kind in the world to employ pound locks. Suzhou and Hangzhou became strategic trade centers thanks to, for 10 points, what large artificial waterway in China?   ']
['Washington Irving   ', ' This author first found success with a "History" that described a character "exactly five feet six inches in height and six feet five inches in circumference." A series of tales set at Bracebridge Hall by this creator of the politician Wouter van Twiller helped invent the America n notion of Christmas. In one  story by this author, a teacher passes by a tree haunted by ||  Major Andre on his horse Gunpowder. That  same character created by this author encounters a figure that is implied to be his rival, Brom Bones, wearing a jack-o-lantern. This author, who published several stories under the pseudonym Diedrich Knickerbocker,  created the character of Geoffrey Crayon. For 10 points, name this author of "The Legend of Sleepy Hollow." ']
['HIV   ', ' The RANTES ligand and MIP help suppress this infectious agent in vitro. This infectious agent is  deemed R5 or X4 based on its preferred target cell, which results in M -tropism  or  syncytium  forming T -tropism. Both this infectious agent and drugs used to treat it are  associated with body fat rearrangement. Maturation inhibitors have been studied for treatment of this pathogen. The entry inhibitor maraviroc inhibits this pathogen by binding the ||  CCR5 receptor, which,  when mutated, provides resistance to this pathogen. HAART therapy for this pathogen may include protease inhibitors, integrase inhibitors, and NRTIs such as AZT. Reverse transcriptase helps replicate the genome of, for 10 points , what retrovirus which kills T cells to cause AIDS?  ']
['Hittite s   ', ' To honor the New Year, these peo ple gathered at the Yazılıkaya  rock sanctuary  near their capital. A group of raiders that this people called the Kaska repeatedly looted their royal court and prevented them from expanding westwards. These people's king is described as "the wretched one"  in the Poem of the Pentaur , which recounts a battle they lost. Historians used the Edict of ||  Telepinu to  construct a history of these people's kings. These people annexed the territory of the Mittani during the reign of Suppiluliuma I. These people formed the northernmost of two kingdoms that sent 6,000 chariots into battle in 1274 BCE at Kadesh. For 10 points, name these people of ancient Anatolia with capital at Hattusa. ']
['film industry   ', ' Phillip Lopate's anthology of writing about this industry includes a section on "Masters an d  Moonlighters" of the 1930s such as James Agee. People in this industry were the most common subject of columns by Louella Parsons and Hedda Hopper. This industry's history is the subject of Karina Longworth's podcast You Must Remember This . Eric Rohmer edited an influential French magazine on  this industry often referred to as just || Cahiers   . Pauline Kael's many essays on this industry  includes one celebrating Herman J. Mankiewicz   to combat auteur  theory and another that  blamed the decline of the screwball genre on blacklist era writers like Dalton Trumbo. For 10 points, name this industry whose creations were frequently reviewed by critic Roger Ebert.   ']
['Vilfredo Pareto    ', ' Michael McLure examined this one-time engineer's "mechanical analogy" that imagines a "homo economicus" to be similar to a "material point." Later thinking by this economist held that people act on emotional "residues." This thinker coined the term "ophelimity" to measure utility. This economist's Cours d'economie politique  built on theories of Leon Walras. A condition named fo r this man is satisfied  when there is ||  complete information, complete markets, and perfect competition according to the First  Welfare Theorem. A concept named for this man describes a situation where no one can be made better off without making someone else worse off. For 10 points, what Italian economist coined the 80/20 rule and names an "efficiency?"   ']
['Campbell's Soup Cans Series I    ', ' Muriel Latow was paid $50 for coming up with the idea for these works, suggesting the artist create  "something people see every day." These paintings were first displayed at the Ferus Gallery in Los  Angeles after Irving Blum convinced the artist that "movie stars come into the gallery." Each of these works had numerous fleur -de-lis hand- stamped on the bottom and a gold disk rather than a more  complicated medallion. These 32 canvases were traced from a projected ||  magazine ad. One of these  paintings has a yellow banner reading, "Great as a sauce too!" and they were supposedly based on "the same lunch [the artist had] every day, for twenty years." The words "Beef Broth" appear on one entry in, for 10 points, what series by Andy Warhol? ']
['Maui   ', ' While following in secret, this hero sees his mother enter the underworld by pulling on a tuft of reeds; he then takes the form of a pigeon to enter the underworld himself. This hero visits the sleeping "Great Woman of Night" in an attempt to obtain immortality, which ends with him being crushed by obsidian teeth. This god repeatedly extinguished a goddess's burning fingernails as part of a scheme to steal ||  fire  for the upper world. This hero's greatest feats include overpowering the sun with a jawbone and hauling up an island chain with a fishhook. For 10 points, many legends from the South Pacific concern what trickster hero from Polynesian mythology, who lends his name to one of the islands of Hawai'i? ']
['South Africa    ', ' In one novel set in this country, a co- owner of the Scaly City reptile park is murdered in a carjacking.  Astrid refuses to bequeath a house to the servant Salome in that novel from this country, The Promise .  Regular visits to Discreet Escorts prompt the protagonist of a novel set in this country to claim to have  "solved the problem of sex rather well. " In that novel from this country, the "dog man" Petrus plots an  attack on ||  Bev Shaw's sometime-lover while he is staying at his daughter Lucy's farm. In that novel from  this country, a professor resigns after having an affair with his student Melanie I saacs. David Lurie is the  protagonist of Disgrace, a novel set in – for 10 points – what home country of J. M. Coetzee?  ']
['molar mass    ', ' This quantity fo r a polymer solution is related to intrinsic viscosity using a pair of parameters named  for Herman Mark and Roelof Houwink. This quantity is determined by measuring a gasses' vapor  density in a technique developed by Jean Dumas. The polydispersity index me asures the ratio between  two forms of this quantity. The root mean square velocity of gas molecules equals the square root of 3R times temperature over this quantity, which has || weight and number- average forms. The rate of effusion  is inversely proporti onal to the square root of this quantity according to Graham's law. Water has a value of  18.02 grams of, for 10 points, what quantity equal to the sum of a molecule's atomic masses? ']
['Denali  National Park and Preserve    ', ' Following a 2021 landslide at this national park, an executive at oil company ConocoPhillips staged a  fundraiser to fix a road named for Governor George Parks. An object in this National Park named for topographer Robert Muldrow was "surging" at 9 feet per day in 2021. Many tourists to this park hike the Stampede Trail to see a bus once owned by Christopher McCandless from the book ||  Into the Wild .  In 2015, Interior Secretary Sally Jewell announced that a mountain in this national park would be renamed to its Koyukon name. A 2013 improvement act that allowed a gas pipeline to run through this national park was sponsored by Senator Lisa Murkowski. For 10 points, identify this national park in Alaska, named for the highest mountain in North America. ']
