['Dubai , United Arab Emirates ', ' The Cayan Tower in this city takes a helical shaped pattern, while a proposed residence called “The Opus” is being built in this city by Zaha Hadid. A hotel named for Five Palms can be found in Jumeirah beach near this city, and a the first || “Seven Star” hotel award was received by a sail shaped building in this city. This city, which contains an artificial archipelago shaped like a world map, is located on the Persian Gulf just north of Abu Dhabi. For 10 points, name this largest city in the United Arab Emirates, home to the Burj Khalifa. ']
['soil  ', ' Materials added to this substance are characterized by a NPK rating. H+ displaces other cations in an cation exchange process in these substances which are cleaned by phytoremediation. It's not glass, but lime is added to this substance to increase its pH. Loamy types of this material both contain water and are aerated. || O, A, B, and C denote layers of this substance, all of which lie above bedrock. The topmost layer of this substance contains humus, which is made of decomposing organic matter. For 10 points, the nutrition of what substance is restored by fertilization? ']
['Delaware ', ' Two families fought over land in this state in a court case that formed an exception to the Mozambique rule and led to further conflict over the placement of the Transpeninsular Line in this state, where Robert Carr’s fleet seized New Castle, the center of the oddly shaped 12-Mile Circle on its northern border, from the Dutch. Peter Minuit founded || Fort Christina on the orders of Sweden in this state along its namesake river, and the city of Wilmington was later founded on that fort’s site. For 10 points, name this “First State”, whose capital was moved to Dover. ']
['Winter  ', ' A piece which is described by this adjective starts with the quarter note melody E E E E F E C E, and suddenly jumps to rapid right hand chromatic style descents. Another piece named for this word contains pieces such as "Will o' the wisp" and "The Linden Tree," while staccato notes played by the strings begin a movement that showcases and is titled for this time period. The poetry of Wilhelm Muller describes a || song cycle by Franz Schbuert which is named for this season. The last concerto in an Antonio Vivaldi piece depicts, for 10 points, what time period that follows L'Otono, or Autumn, in The Four Seasons? ']
['The Adventures of Augie March ', ' In the final paragraph of the work this character appears in he exclaims “Look at me, going everywhere!” He earlier has his ship sunk and ends up in a lifeboat with a lunatic. This character, who joins the merchant navy and works for Einhorn, flies to Mexico with a lover who attempts to catch lizards with an eagle. He goes on to have affairs with || Sophie, Thea, and Stella, who he ends up marrying. This character’s brothers are Simon and George and he opens his eponymous work by stating that “I am an American , Chicago born.” For 10 points, name this title character of a Saul Bellow work describing his “Adventures”. ']
['Cyrus the Great  ', ' At one battle, this leader organized for his troops to ride camels, terrifying the opposing side’s horses into defeat. Tomyris, the Queen of Massagetae, legendarily killed this man by beheading him and placing his head in a jar of blood. This victor of the Battle of Thymbra passed the Edict of Restoration, which granted the Jews religious tolerance, ending the|| Babylonian Captivity. This ruler detailed his plans for human rights in his namesake cylinder, and conquered both Media and Lydia for his kingdom that had its capital at Pasargadae. For 10 points, name this founder of the Achaemenid Persian empire. ']
['Pieter Bruegel the Elder ', ' In one of this man’s paintings, a lamb lies down in the foreground by a sheep and pig, which are both being shorn. In that same painting, a woman puts a blue cloak on her husband. In another of his paintings, an “extra foot” is visible under plates of bread, porridge, and soup carried on a door off its hinges, and there are || two sheaves of grain on the wall. Another of this man’s paintings includes a man carrying a dead fox, and depicts a wintertime scene. In this man’s most famous painting, a farmer pushes a plough and the title figure’s legs are visible in the water. For 10 points, name this Dutch renaissance painter of The Peasant Wedding, Hunters in the Snow, and Landscape with the Fall of Icarus. ']
['velocity  ', ' In one formula, w equals the hyperbolic arctangent of this quantity divided by a constant. Two successive changes in reference frame gives a nonzero angular form of this quantity in a Wigner rotation. Decreasing slope on a spacetime diagram indicates an increasing value of this quantity. This property of || light is invariant by the second postulate of special relativity. In length contraction, objects are perceived as shorter when this quantity increases. Integrated with respect to time to give position is, for 10 points, what quantity whose change per unit time is acceleration? ']
['Dubliners ', ' A story in this book details a mother signing up her child for countless concerts as a piano accompanist and eventually stops doing so until she is fully paid. Another story in this book depicts a man whipping a pair of young boys  for having "sweethearts." In addition to "A Mother" and || "An Encounter," the opening story in this collection shows a youth lamenting the death of Father Flynn. Mangan buys a gift for her brother in this collection's story "Araby," while this book ends with snow falling on the grave of a man named Michael Furey in its concluding story, "The Dead." For 10 points, name this collection of Irish stories penned by James Joyce. ']
['Gunpowder Plot  ', ' Participants in this event used munitions and supplies from Hewell Grange and Warwick Castle to defend themselves in the Holbeche House. Thomas Percy helped plan this event, whose aftermath saw the imprisonment and execution of Father Henry Garnet. This event would have featured the kidnapping of Princess Elizabeth had || Lord Monteagle not given an anonymous letter addressed to him to Robert Cecil. A group of Catholics led by Robert Catesby were the main participants in this event, in which James I would have been killed in the House of Lords. For 10 points, name this 1605 plot which included Guy Fawkes. ']
['Alaska ', ' Early art from this modern day state involved making animal shoes and jackets, and was commonly referred to as “skin sewing.” One art form still common in this state is separated into “frontal” and “shame” types, while an animal in that style is presented with an unusually long paddle tail. People from this state created “good luck amulets” when doing a particular activity, while the Haida people of this state famouslydepicted creatures including the || thunderbird at the base of a long cedarwood tree trunk in many sculptures. Whale hunting and Totem Pole assembling are prominent in, for 10 points, what northernmost state? ']
['Wallace Stevens ', ' A poem by this writer asks “What is divinity if it can come only in silent shadows and in dreams?” That poem by this writer continually repeats the lines “Death is the mother of Beauty.” In another poem, this poet wrote about a “dresser of deal lacking the three || glass knobs,” in which a woman's "horny feet protrude.” This poet of “Sunday Morning” wrote about a “muscular one” who is told to whip up “concupiscent curds” which begins “Call out the roller of big cigars.” For 10 points, name this poet of the “The Emperor of Ice-Cream,” and “Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Blackbird.” ']
['carbon capture  ', ' Description Acceptable . In February 2010, Barack Obama published the Federal Strategy on building up infrastructure to carry out this process. Byproducts of this carbon-negative process include amines and nitrogen, which are released through “stacks”. University of California-Berkeley professors expressed concern that gas companies such as || Occidental would invest in machines carrying out this process as an excuse to continue burning fossil fuels. In this process, sequestration has replaced the work of 40 million trees in British Columbia. For 10 points, Carbon Engineering, backed by Bill Gates, aims to do what process which removes carbon dioxide and stores it underground? ']
['Henry IV of France  ', ' This leader became heir presumptive after the death of Francis, Duke of Anjou. This man was raised and influenced by his mother, Jeanne d’Albret, after his father, Antoine of Navarre, was killed at the Siege of Rouen. This leader was victorious at the battle of Coutras, and this man first married Margaret of Valois. Days afterwards, Gaspard de Coligny was murdered in the || St. Bartholomew’s Day Massacre. While stuck in Parisian traffic, this king was assassinated by François Ravaillac. The first Bourbon King of France was, for 10 points, which monarch, who claimed that “Paris is well worth a mass” after converting to Catholicism? ']
['Spain  ', ' A section of a ballet from this modern day country sees the violins followed by the oboes repeating E F trills before its climax. That composer from this country created a piece titled for the "Night in the Gardens of [this country]," and also created a "Ritual Fire Dance" in a ballet from this country that translates to || "Love, The Magician." An opera set in this country sees the title character sing the aria "Love is a Rebellious Bird" before being stabbed by Don Jose in the woo of Escamillo. George Bizet's Carmen is set in, for 10 points, what Iberian Country whose cities include Madrid? ']
['real gas ses  ', ' Nonsensical "loops" predicted by an equation modeling these substances are canceled out with a simple approximation called the Maxwell construction. These substances are characterized by a compression factor, Z. These substances do zero work during free expansion. An equation modeling these substances accounts for particle || volume and intermolecular attractions and is derived from kinetic-molecular theory. One law describing these substances states volume is proportional to pressure and temperature. Modeled by Boyle's law is, for 10 points, what state of matter formed by vaporization of liquids? ']
['United States Presidential Election of 1824 ', ' One candidate in this election was succeeded by Richard Rush as Secretary of the Treasury soon afterwards; that same contender only won the states of Virginia and Georgia in this election. The winner ofthis election later joined the National Republican Party near the end of his term before later becoming a congressman. This election, which ended the || Era of Good Feelings, resulted in a contingent election where presumptive victor Andrew Jackson was defeated with the help of Henry Clay in what he later termed a “corrupt bargain.” For 10 points, which election featured the ascendancy of John Quincy Adams to the presidency? ']
['Moon  ', ' A story whose title mentions multiple of these objects starts with two characters traveling to a Toronto hospital to see their father’s heart condition, and ends while the narrator sees camel-like stones in an elegant garden. In a play, Death is disguised as beggar women and this object is eventually personified by a woodcutter. In a poem whose central subject is this object, the speaker states, || “Amongst the flowers; I am alone with my pot of wine.” The aforementioned poet of that work titled for “Drinking alone by [this object]” supposedly tried while trying to grab a reflection of it. For 10 points, Li Bai often wrote about what celestial object contrasted with the sun? ']
['Republic of India  ', ' Fishermen from this country have often been held hostage by a southern counterpart's navy as part of the Palk Bay dispute. In this country, Naxalites have allied with indigenous adivasis in fighting against corporations like Tata Steel. In a 2020 video clip, a student states that he wants to "destroy [this country]," prompting his teacher to respond "grape." Minor parties in this country include the CPI(M) and the || Shiv Sena. A Communist government rules this country's southwestern state of Kerala. This country's "National Congress" lost a 2019 election to this country's governing BJP. For 10 points, name this country currently led by Narendra Modi. ']
['Perón family  ', ' The Cabildo Abierto rallies were held to try to persuade one member of this family to run for Vice President. The Swiss accused that member of this family of trying to deposit Nazi riches in secret bank accounts, and thus threw tomatoes at her during her “Rainbow Tour” of Europe. The Triple A death squad ruined another member of this family’s return from exile when they massacred his followers at the|| Ezeiza airport. That member of this family’s followers were known as the descamisados, or “shirtless ones”, and he was succeeded by his third wife Isabel. For 10 points, name this family of Eva and Juan, prominent leaders of 20th century Argentina. ']
