['W orld W ar I  ', ' Prior to this war, that side’s general Yuri Danilov developed “Plan 19”, which was criticized for its focus on East Prussia, near which the Attack of the Dead Men occured. Another battle in this war was given its name to avenge a defeat for the Teutonic Knights. That battle was the Battle of || Tannenberg, in which Erich Ludendorff and Paul von Hindenburg defeated a Russian army. Russia was later forced to sign the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk. For 10 points, name this “Great War” in which the Central Powers were defeated by the Entente. ']
['Islamic Republic of Iran  ', ' After he was detained in this country's Evin Prison, British environmentalist Morad Tahbaz went on a hunger strike. In March 2022, this country launched a series of missiles at a neighboring country's city of Erbil, leading to widespread condemnation of its Quds force. This country is the primary source of funding for both the Houthi rebels and Hassan Nasrallah's militant group || Hezbollah. This country's 2021 election was won by the leader of the Combatant Clergy Association, Ebrahim Raisi. This country's Supreme Leader Ali Khameini lambasted Donald Trump after the latter withdrew from a highly-touted nuclear deal. For 10 points, name this country with its capital at Tehran. ']
['Pictures at an Exhibition ', ' One movement in this piece begins with the bassoon playing five repeated E flats, which gives way to a soloist first playing the notes E flat, G sharp. A section of this work starts with repeated two note slurs to showcase children, and a recurring motif in this work begins with the notes G, F, B flat. This piece featured one of the first orchestral saxophone solos and depicts two women quarreling in || “The Market at Limoges.” A movement in this piece depicting the hut of a Russian witch precedes one named after a Ukrainian Landmark, titled “The Great Gate at Kiev.” For 10 points, name this Victor Hartmann inspired composition by Modest Mussorgsky. ']
['David Copperfield ', ' One character in this novel lives with Mrs. Gummidge in an upside down boat. The title character runs to Dover escaping from his step-father and goes to live with his eccentric aunt, who calls him “Trot.” That man’s nephew, Ham, drowns trying to save sailors on a boat that also carried James || Steerforth, who ran off with Ham’s fiance Emily. Traddles, one of the protagonist’s school friends, helps him expose the main villain for bank fraud. The protagonist marries Agnes Wickfield after saving her father from ruin at the hands of Uriah Heep. For 10 points, name this semi-autobiographical Charles Dickens coming of age novel. ']
['Haymarket Square Riot  ', ' Albert Weiner sculpted a commemorative statue for this event depicting a woman in a robe standing over a fallen man. Rudolph Schnaubelt most likely caused this incident, which resulted in the suicide of Louis Lingg. The main action of this event interrupted a speech on socialism delivered by Samuel Fielden, and its aftermath saw the pardon of three of its conspirators by John Peter Altgeld. Striking workers lobbied for an|| 8-hour workday during this event that took place at the McCormick Harvesting Machine Company Plant. For 10 points, name this 1886 labor riot in Chicago which saw an unknown striker throw a bomb at police officers. ']
['Nikolai Gogol ', ' A story by this author follows a theologian, a philosopher, and a rhetorician encountering a witch while returning on a summer hike to their respective residences. After proposing to Maria, the title character of a play by this author sends a letter to the Postmaster mocking the people of a particular town. A man madly believes he is the King of || Spain in another story by this author of “A May Night” and “Viy.” A story by this man climaxes when Yakovelevich discovers the title appendage belonging to Kovyalov in a piece of bread. The Inspector General is by, For 10 points, what Russian author of “Diary of a Madman,” “The Nose,” and “The Overcoat?” ']
['alkenes  ', ' The acid-catalyzed elimination of water from a tertiary alcohol can produce a trisubstituted form of these molecules. The addition of mercuric acetate can convert these compounds into alcohols in a process which follows Markovnikov’s rule. The favored product of these molecules in elimination reactions is predicted by Zaitsev’s rule. The configuration of these non-cyclic molecules is denoted by || E/Z notation due to these molecules’ cis/trans isomerism. These compounds can be hydrogenated into alkanes, and their general formula is C n H 2n . For 10 points, name these hydrocarbons which contain at least one carbon-carbon double bond. ']
['Emperor Hirohito  ', ' This man created the Unit 731 division to create biological warfare technology, but disguised it as a public health agency. During one failed coup against this leader, the League of Blood was unable to murder Charlie Chaplin due to his location at a wrestling arena in the May 15 incident. This leader alerted his people to avoid “outbursts of emotion” in order to keep “the confidence of the world” in a speech that urged its listeners to prepare to || “endure the unendurable”. The aforementioned Jewel Voice Broadcast was delivered by this man, who is commonly referred to as Shōwa. For 10 points, name this Emperor of Japan during World War II. ']
['Altarpiece s [Accept Isenheim Altarpiece or The Ghent Altarpiece ) ', ' A painting of this type has a scene where a volcanic eruption serves as the background of a young Jesus playing with Mary’s necklace, while also portraying a pale figure whose face is obscured by an orange orb. Another work of this type depicts an angelic choir next to a depiction of Eve grabbing a fruit, and shows many figures surrounding an octagonal structure. Matthias || Grunewald created one of these artworks named after Isenheim, while the central scene of another artwork of this type depicts angels kneeling to a holy animal, titled “The Adoration of the Lamb.” For 10 points, name this type of church artwork which includes Jan Van Eyck’s “Ghent.” ']
['Bertrand Arthur William Russell ', ' One section of this philosopher’s  largest work contains a full page proof of how 1+1=2. This monist thinker contradicted Meinon’s theory by constructing sentences with ‘definite descriptions’ that do not exist. He used many paradoxes, such as one about “the least integer not namable in fewer than || nineteen syllables” to propose a hierarchy of variable languages, the most famous of which is often phrased using a barber. For 10 points, name this British philosopher and logician that names a paradox about a set containing all sets that do not contain themselves, who co-wrote Principia Mathematica. ']
['Rabindranath Tagore ', ' An author described this man’s poetry as “so abundant and simple” while claiming that a new Renaissance had been created in his country. This author describes the rain clouds of July with its “burden ofunshed showers” after tasting “hidden honey” while also describing the actions of a “reed flute” and a “frail vessel” in one work. This man compares his homeland to “homesick cranes” and depicts children || “not knowing how to cast nets” in a collection in which he famously claims “Let my country awake!” That collection by this man begins with the claim “Thou hast made me endless, such is thy pleasure.” For 10 points, name this Bengali poet of Gitanjali . ']
['Shinto ism ', ' In this mythology, a giant catfish that lives in mud causes earthquakes when he moves. A primordial god in this religion attempts to save his wife from the underworld, only to light a fire and see her rotting corpse. The origin of day and night came from when the goddess of food was killed by the god of the moon, || Tsuku-no-Mikoto. Susano'o destroys his sister's rice fields in this myth system, leading to the sun goddess hiding in a cave. The brother-husband of Izanami, Izanagi, washes his face and gives birth to Amaterasu in, for 10 points, what religion originating from Japan? ']
['Battle of New Orleans ', ' One group that fought at this battle had earlier been attacked by a fleet headed by the USS Carolina, commanded by Daniel Patterson, who would go on to hold a battery attacked by William Thornton. One British offensive was impeded by Thomas Mullins forgetting to bring || ladders, and British General Pakenham was killed in this battle. Full pardons were granted to pirates led by Jean Lafitte who fought in this battle, which actually occurred after the signing of the Treaty of Ghent. For 10 points, name this final battle of the War of 1812, a victory for Andrew Jackson near its namesake Louisianian city. ']
['Jakob Ludwig Felix Mendelssohn Bartholdy  ', ' A clarinet melody in this composer’s third symphony was meant to evoke many “snap dances” while the second movement of his fourth symphony uses the same instrument to evoke the chant of a priest. This composer’s fifth symphony quotes Wagner’s Parsifal and eventually leads up to the “Dresden Amen,”  and a “Spinner’s Song” appears alongside many Venetian Themes in his || Songs Without Words . This composer’s fifth symphony was created to celebrate the 300th anniversary of the Augsburg Confession, and his trip to Fingal’s Cave inspired his Hebrides Overture . For 10 points, name this German composer of the Scottish and Italian symphonies. ']
['Detective ', ' It is not a priest, but a story revolving around the title “Blue Cross” introduces a character of this type named Father Brown. People of this type seek Arturo Belano and other visceral realists in a Roberto Bolaño novel titled for them. A fugitive named Casetti appears in a novel centering around a character of this type, who in another book is presented by narrator James || Sheppard . In a story titled “The Final Problem,” another character of this type fakes death at Reichenbach Falls while battling his enemy Professor James Moriarty. For 10 points, name this profession of Hercule Poirot and Sherlock Holmes, who often are the protagonists of mystery novels. ']
['Alexandria  ', ' One structure in this city had four statues of the god Triton placed on its corners. The Septuagint was made in this city, which possessed the world’s largest Jewish population during antiquity. Another building in this city may have been organized by Demetrius of Phalerum in the 3rd century BC. This city was heavily damaged by a tsunami caused by the 365 || earthquake, whose epicenter was in the Eastern Mediterranean. One of this city’s structures, built on its island of Pharos, was a Wonder of the Ancient World. Eratosthenes studied at a famous library in, for 10 points, what Egyptian city, founded by Alexander the Great? ']
['Chicago , Illinois ', ' A Samuel Insull designed opera house located in this city has been possibly referred to as his namesake throne, and a recent structure in this city has been named “Aqua” due to its resemblance of water ripples. A feminine central figure is the subject of a sculpture in this city originally named The Sun, The Moon, and One Star . A Henry Moore sculpture titled || Nuclear Energy can be found in this home of the Pritzker Pavilion . An Alexander Calder statue titled Flamingo can be found in this city, which also contains the Anish Kapoor designed “Bean” in its Millennium Park. For 10 points, name this Illinois city that contains the Willis Tower. ']
['solid surface s  ', ' This is the first word in the name of a technique that exploits evanescent waves to measure dissociation constants. A model of a process at these entities states theta equals alpha p over one plus alpha p, thus relating fractional coverage to pressure. The Langmuir isotherm models adsorption on these entities. A force named for these entities is denoted || gamma and has units of joules per square meter or newtons per meter. That force is also decreased by detergents, and causes capillary action. For 10 points, a "tension" named for what entities enables insects to walk on water? ']
['Francisco Franco Bahamonde  ', ' The Vertical Syndicate was the only trade union permitted in this man’s country. This leader built the Valley of the Fallen with the use of forced labor, which was put into disuse through the “Pact of Forgetting” after this man’s death. This leader sent the Blue Division to fight in || World War II, which was able to survive a massive Soviet counterattack near Leningrad. Years after fighting in the Rif War, this leader won a war in which he opposed the Abraham Lincoln Brigade and bombed the town of Guernica. For 10 points, name this fascist dictator who ruled Spain after winning the Spanish Civil War until 1975. ']
['Citizen Kane ', ' Jorge Luis Borges criticized this film by saying “no one would care to see” it again. Gregg Toland implemented low-angle shots into this film, whose protagonist tears up the “Declaration of Principles” after firing his friend Jedidiah Leland. In this film, one character’s political career is ruined after his affair with opera singer || Susan Alexander is revealed by the political boss Jim Gettys. The title character resides at the Xanadu estate in this film, where he dies shortly after uttering the word “Rosebud”. For 10 points, name this 1941 Orson Welles film chronicling the life of the title newspaper tycoon. ']
