['Islamic Prayer  ', ' A type of this action, translating to “the odd one,” involves another type of this action known as a qunut . Ruku and sujud are both included in movements this action must be taken in known as the || rakat . The fajr and isha are forms of this practice, usually preceded by a cleansing known as wudu . The call to this action is mainly taken by a muezzin , and it must be completed while aligned with the qiblah , pointing to Mecca. For 10 points, name this devotic practice that Islamic adherents must comply to five times a day. ']
['Mount Fuji ', ' An oddly shaped red tree obscures the path of three men on horseback traversing an earthen bridge to reach this location. Men struggle to build a water mill and individuals try to avoid scattered papers in other depictions of this location. Workers attempt to repair the roof of a store in a work that shows this object in the background, while it was also depicted in Fine Wind . The || Mannen Bridge can be seen in a depiction of this object, the most famous of which shows two boats trying to escape an enormous feature with claw-like ends titled The Great Wave Off Kanagawa . Hokusai famously painted 36 views of, For 10 points, what Japanese mountain? ']
['France ', ' Tensions between the Jola people and one of this country’s colonies were prevalent along a contested region known as the Casamance. Gillermo Pontecorvo dramatized the independence between this country and one of its colonies, also the site of Harkis units. One colony of this country contained the so-called “Door of No Return” while the OAS had a goal of negating independence from another of this country’s holdings . || Leopold Senghor led one of this country’s colonies after its independence, and the Evian Accords were signed to help an African nation gain independence from this country. For 10 points, what European nation colonized such nations as Cote d’Ivoire? ']
['Kazuo Ishiguro ', ' The protagonist of a novel by this author attempts to save a boy’s blue polo shirt while he stomps in the mud during a football match. A character in another novel by this author fails to tell Reginald Cardinal about the “facts of life” after receiving a letter from Mrs. Benn. A woman named Madame cries while watching a girl dance with a pillow in a novel by this author set at a school named || Hailsham. A novel by this author takes its title from a Judy Bridgewater song, while in another novel, the butler Stevens takes a journey across the countryside to visit Ms. Kenton. For 10 points, name this author who penned Never Let Me Go and The Remains of the Day . ']
['human middle/inner ear  ', ' In humans, small organs in this structure called the utricle and saccule contain small calcium carbonate grains called statoliths. The eustachian tube of this structure can be opened with the Valsalva maneuver. This structure's vestibular system contains three semicircular canals for detection of rotational acceleration and thus || balance. Hair cells are pushed against the tectorial membrane in this structure during mechanoreception.The malleus, incus, and stapes, which are three small bones in this structure, transmit vibrations. For 10 points, name this organ responsible for hearing. ']
['George S Patton Jr. ', ' This man was relieved of his military governorship of Bavaria after his controversial comparisons between Nazis, Republicans, and Democrats. This man placed fifth in the first modern Olympic pentathlon in 1912. After leading the capture of Casablanca during Operation Torch, this man helped raise the morale of the II Corps, years after he was ordered by || Douglas MacArthur to disperse the Bonus Army. This commander, the first to reach Messina with his Seventh Army, was relieved of his duty for nearly a year after slapping two shell-shocked soldiers. For 10 points, name this American general who was known as “Old Blood and Guts.” ']
['Brazil ', ' The Cerrado toad is the namesake for a critically endangered savannah region located in this country. The origins of a city near the ruins of Kuhikugu in this country was sought by explorer Percy Fawcett and eventually was given the epithet “Z.” The Yanomami tribe lives in a region located in this country, who are known for painting their faces in || distinct patterns. The Marajoa culture was based on a namesake island in this country’s state of Para, while a river in it was so named because of the fierce female warriors which were encountered. For 10 points, name this country which contains most of the Amazon rainforest. ']
['Scott Joplin ', ' A popular work by this composer opens with the melody D E C A B G  before repeating it an octave lower. A work created by this man uses many “stop time” intervals where the performer is required to stamp his/her feet on the ground. A man named Zodzerick sings “A Bag of Luck” to the title character in an opera this man set in two towns set across the || Red River, and composer James Scott based his works off the style this man invented. This composer of the opera Treemonisha commemorated a club in Sedalia Missouri with standards such as “The Entertainer.” For 10 points, name this African American composer nicknamed the “King of Ragtime.” ']
['Clovis I  ', ' This leader was named consul by Byzantine Emperor Anastasius I after he incorporated the region of Aquitaine into his kingdom. Following the Battle of Soissons, this leader was famously begged by Saint Remigius to return a vase he stole. This man succeeded his father Childeric I, and he passed a legal code that excluded women from holding property. That code was the || Salic Law. This man was baptized in Reims on Christmas Day 508, having been heavily encouraged by his wife, Saint Clothilde. For 10 points, name this first Christian King of the Franks, the founder of the Merovingian Dynasty. ']
['“ An Occurrence At Owl Creek Bridge ” ', ' In this story, a character who had not been covered with a bandage on his head decides to look at his “unsteadfast footing.” One man in this story looks at the pattern of constellations in the sky after realizing that an increasing sound was the “ticking of his watch.” In this story, the protagonist eventually obsesses over a great quantity of || driftwood before returning to his plantation. This story describes a journey through which a man dodges Union bullets to escape his crime, only to find out that he had received a “stunning blow on the neck.” For 10 points, name this story about Peyton Farquar and the title structure, penned by Ambrose Bierce. ']
['Battle of Bunker Hill  ', ' One combatant in this battle was celebrated in a poem stating “Sturdy and brave as his knighted sires, who for centuries kept their altar fires”, which was titled “Seth Pomeroy’s Ride”. After repeatedly proclaiming “I hope I shall die up to my knees in blood!”, Joseph Warren died in this battle. William Prescott constructed a defensive redoubt at this battle, which resulted in the dismissal of Thomas || Gage. At thisbattle, one commander legendarily ordered to not “fire until you see the whites of their eyes”. For 10 points, name this 1775 Revolutionary War battle which was ironically fought on Breed’s Hill. ']
['The Planets  ', ' A book by Alan Leo is a probable influence for this piece, and it was originally titled "Seven Pieces for Large Orchestra". The composer of this work originally scored its final movement with a single organ. Its second movement opens with a horn solo playing the notes F, G, A-flat, B-flat. The strings play a || col legno ostinato in 5/4 (five-four) time in the first movement of this piece, whose "Mystic" movement ends with an offstage female chorus fading away, while another movement of this piece is subtitled "Bringer of Jollity". For 10 points, name this work by Gustave Holst with movements representing astrological entities such as Mars and Jupiter. ']
['Claude Levi-Strauss  ', ' This thinker repeatedly discussed the ‘exchange of women’ between families as a social structure and alliance forger common to all cultures. A series of four food-themed essays about similar South American myths like “Honey and Ashes” are in his Mythologiques, and he discarded totemism for a theory about bricoleur societies. He sought to extend the rigid, logical theories of Ferdinand de Saussure to anthropology, most notably with his book about the || incest taboo and family dynamics, Elementary Structure of Kinship. For 10 points, name this French structural anthropologist, who compared primitive and civilized cultures in The Savage Mind. ']
['Song Dynasty  ', ' This dynasty’s first emperor overthrew Guo Zongxun after a prophet allegedly saw two suns in combat. Zhang Zeduan painted Along the River During the Qingming Festival in this dynasty, during which Zhu Xi helped pioneer Neo-Confucianism. During this dynasty, Kaifeng was sacked by the Jirchen in the Jingkang Incident, forcing the capital to be moved to Hangzhou and beginning the || Southern period of this dynasty. The compass, moveable-type, and gunpowder were all pioneered during this dynasty, which came to an end at the hands of Kublai Khan. For 10 points, name this Chinese dynasty that was succeeded by the Mongol Yuan dynasty. ']
['quantization  ', ' Energy of a standing wave confined to a finite area must have this property by the confinement principle. The allowed values of n gives this property to the system in a formula that features the difference between two terms of 1 over n squared, calculates wavelength, and is named for Rydberg. Plank proposed energy had this property when studying || blackbody radiation. To explain an observation of spectral lines, Bohr's model of the atom introduced energy levels with this property. For 10 points, name this property of only being at some levels, like the heights of stairs on a staircase instead of a ramp. ']
['Flannery O’Connor ', ' In a story by this author, one character stands before a mirror and puts a new hat on while another character waits how “Saint Sebastian” would; that story takes its title from a work by Pierre de Chardin. In another story by this author, a salesman who keeps liquor and pornographic content in a hollowed out version of the bible steals Joy Hopewell’s prosthetic || leg. In addition to “Good Country People,” another of this author's stories features the restaurant owner Red Sammy, and eventually climaxes when a Floridian criminal named the Misfit ends the life of a Grandmother. For 10 points, name this southern Gothic author of “A Good Man is Hard to Find.” ']
['Sweden ', ' In one rebellion in this country, one man set to be deposed as regent was backed by peasant forces defeated in the battle of Rotebro by a later king of this country, after having earlier defeated that man’s father at the battle of Brunkeberg. A later revolt in this country’s province of Småland occurred after one king’s namesake reduction and was led by Nils Dacke. That king of this country was || Gustav I Vasa, who had converted to Lutheranism and seized church property to fund this country’s namesake war of liberation, a rebellion in which this country seceded from the Kalmar Union. For 10 points, name this country in which Christian I was defeated by forces under this country’s regent Sten Sture the Elder outside of Stockholm. ']
['Vancouver , British Columbia ', ' George Mckay built a seventy meter long suspension bridge overlooking the Capilano River, which is near this city. One can find Jericho beach in this city’s neighborhood of Kitsilano, while the North Shore mountains dominate the skyline of it. This city, located along the Burrard Inlet, contains a famous “steam clock” in its neighborhood of Gastown, which lies next to an area known as || Stanley Park. The Fraser River runs through this city, connected by tram to the town of Whistler. The 2010 Winter Olympics were held in this city opposite the Pacific facing Victoria. For 10 points, name this Canadian city, the capital of British Columbia. ']
['Miss Julie ', ' This character claims that “Oh, All boys steal apples” and picks off many syringas while imagining herself trapped on a pillar of great height. This woman tells another character that she is not afraid of blood when he beheads her pet canary named Serena, and earlier a cook kills her dog Diana with a poisonous concoction. The play named after this character shows her striving to open a Hotel at Lake || Como with Kristine, and the valet, Jean, but the arrival of The Count ruins the dream and eventually causes this character to contemplate suicide using a razor. For 10 points, name this title woman of an August Strindberg play. ']
['Diego Rivera ', ' This man added a mirror reflecting the legs of a green table in the background of his work depicting the title fruits, named The Watermelons . A work by this man which portrays a rising hot air balloon reading “RM” famously shows him as a boy at the title location, and a work by this artist depicting fists coming out of a mountain is part of 27 works showcasing workers at the || River Rouge Plant. A depiction of Vladimir Lenin caused Nelson Rockefeller to destroy one of this man’s works which shows a man nervously operating the title location. For 10 points, name this Mexican muralist of Man at the Crossroads , the husband of Frida Kahlo. ']
