['England   ', ' This country's folk song "Green Bushes" inspired one of its composers to write The Banks of Green Willow . In 1943, this country's Hallé  ("HAH -lay") Orchestra was revived by one of its native conductors,  John Barbirolli. A composer from this country quoted "Dives and Lazarus" and "Seventeen Come Sunday"  in a suite of its traditional folk songs. That composer also orchestrated a 16th- century melody  based on this country's hymn ||  "Why fum'th in fight." Every summer, this country hosts an eight- week  series of concerts called the Proms. A composer from thi s country wrote The Lark Ascending and Fantasia on a  Theme of Thomas Tallis . For 10 points, name this home country of Ralph  ("rafe")  Vaughan Williams and  Edward Elgar. ']
['placebo  effect    ', ' In a textbook, Fabrizio Benedetti explored theorized mechanisms of this phenomenon such as "top - down modulation of sensory and motor systems." This phenomenon was popularized after observing differences between soldiers in  World War II and civilians in Massachusetts by Henry Beecher. This  phenomenon still occurs even when it's explicitly explained to people in "open label" schemes. A portmanteau of the word "no" and the name of this phenomenon has been theorized to cause many COVID vaccine ||  adverse events and is a form of social learning. In double- blind research studies, this  phenomenon is typically observed in the response of the control group. For 10 points, name this effect where subjects given a "sham" sugar pill might feel better.   ']
['Sylvia Plath   ', ' In a draft of a poem that was published posthumously in 2010, news about this person is delivered by a  "voice like a selected weapon / Or a measured injection." This poet's first day of college is described in  the poem "Blue Flannel Suit." This poet declared, "What a trash / To annihilate each decade" after describing "Number Three." This author is the dedicatee of the collection The ||  Hawk in the Rain as well  as the main subject of the collection Birthday Letters. This poet wrote lines such as "The vampire who said he  was you / And drank my blood for a year," and "A man in black with a Meinkampf look," to refer either to the title parent, or her husband Ted Hughes. For 10 points, name this poet of "Daddy." ']
['bridge s   ', ' Ronald G. Knapp's book on "wind- and- rain" types of these structures in China includes the fam ous  Chengyang example. In 1587, Antonio da Ponte won a competition to design one of these structures that required 6,000 timber piles to be driven into the ground. A man who invented the sand casting process at the Baptist Mills Brass Works factory innovat ively used iron for one of these structures in Shropshire  and was named Abraham Darby. Washington ||  Roebling  ("ROH -bling")  almost died of decompression  sickness while working on one of these structures in New York. Colonial structures of this type in New England were often "covered" and employed the Burr Truss design. For 10 points, what type of structure spans New York's East River? ']
['blue  ', ' Porphyrin compounds exhibit an intense absorption peak in this color of the spectrum called a Soret  ("so-RAY")  band. CRY1 and CRY2 code for proteins called cryptochromes which use light of this color for  entrainment. A twisted form of the carotenoid asta·xanthin causes about one in two million lobsters to appear this color. Animals that appear green or this color rarely do so due to pigments and are more likely to exhibit structural coloration, as seen in the wings of the butterfly Morpho didius . Human ||  eyes  which appear this color contain little melanin, which normally blocks Rayleigh scattering. S- cones percei ve this  color due to its shorter wavelength in the visible spectrum. For 10 points, name this color of jays in the genus Cyanocitta  ("sie -uh-noe-SI-tuh") .  ']
['Republic of Zimbabwe    ', ' At Rufaro Stadium in this modern -day country, an ailing Bob Marley sang "Get Up, Stand Up" to  celebrate its newly won independence. Malaysia's prime minister partially -funded the construction of a  presidential house in this country nicknamed "Blue Roof". A North Korea -trained military unit called  the Fifth Brigade carried out an ethnic cleansing in this country during a period known as the ||   Gukurahundi ("goo -koo-ra-hoon -dee") . Perhaps 20,000 people were killed in this country in the 1980s in a purge  of members of the Ndebele ("en -day-bay-lay") minority. A long- time ruler of this modern -day country was part of  a ZANU-PF guerilla campaign against Ian Smith's white minority government. For 10 points, name this African country once ruled by Robert Mugabe and formerly called Rhodesia. ']
['Freya     ', ' This deity, or a magic- user named Hild, orchestrates the "Battle of the Followers of Hedin ("heh- DEEN") ," whose combatants are killed and resurrected every day for 143 years. This deity interrogates a  wolf-riding seeress named Hyndla to reveal the ancestry of Ottarr ("OT -tahr") . This deity's tears were  variously said to consist of amber or of gold. To retrieve one of this deity's possessions, ||  Heimda ll  fought Loki in the form of a seal. This deity owned a cloak made of falcon feathers, which the Aesir could  borrow and use to fly. This goddess rode on the boar Hildisvini, owned the necklace Brisingamen, and received half of all slain warriors in her field of Folkvangr. For 10 points, name this member of the Vanir, a love goddess from Norse mythology. ']
['documentary    ', ' A Latin American film in this genre, Hour of the Fur naces, accompanied the manifesto "Towards a  Third Cinema." Since Titicut ("TI-tuh-kut") Follies , Frederick Wiseman has specialized in making films in  this genre. An animated film in this genre was inspired by Jonas Poher Rasmussen's Afghan friend Amin. A m irrored device called an ||  Interrotron was invented for making films in this genre by the director  of The Thin Blue Line , Errol Morris. An "effect" named for a director of these films pans and zooms across still  photographs and was used in 2001's Jazz. F ilms in this genre often feature "talking head" interviews and  reenactments. For 10 points, name this genre of Roger & Me  by Michael Moore and The Civil War  by Ken  Burns. ']
['bi cycling    ', ' In 1941, the anti- fascist Julian Berrendero went from a concentration camp to being a hero at this  activity. A trip centering around this activity in Germany drives the plot of the sequel to Jerome K. Jerome's Three Men in a Boat . The "voice" of this activity, Phil Liggett, often consults a "Speaker's  Guide" that documents the history of chateaus. The Pope Manufacturing Company helped fuel an 1890s   craze for this activity which accelerated the adoption of ||  bloomers. An improvement on the penny- farthing made this activity popular among "wheelmen." 400 kilometers of dedicated tracks for this activity has cut carbon emissions in Copenhagen. For 10 points, name this activity whose champions can earn a Yellow Jersey at the Tour de France.   ']
['capacitor s   ', ' In the 2000s, many aluminum versions of these devices exploded in their namesake "plague." High-strength versions of these devices, which make use of Helmholtz double layers, are called their "super" type. These devices are connected in parallel  to the  load in simple low -pass filters, as their reactance is  inversely proportional to frequency. The time constant equals ||  resistance times the characteristic quantity  of these devices, which equals relative permittivity times area over distance for a type of them shown as two  parallel lines in circuit diagrams. Some of these devices' electrolytic types have a dielectric placed between two parallel plates. For 10 points, what charge- storing devices have a namesake quantity measured in farads?  ']
['Don Juan    ', ' While in a graveyard, this character finds a run- down hourglass representing his life in a play often  performed on All Saints' Day. This title character was controversially depicted as an atheist in a play  which was written to replace the also -controversial Tartuffe  by Molière ("moll- YARE") . This character,  whom  a José Zorrilla ("thoh- REE- ah") play gives the surname Tenorio, was introduced in a circa 1630 play  by ||  Tirso de Molina partly -titled for a "Stone Guest." In this character's usual narrative, he is haunted by Don  Gonzalo after becoming involved with Gonzalo’s daughter Ana. In some dramatic adaptations, a statue of the Commendatore  ("koe -MEN -dah- TOR-ay") drags this character to hell after dinner. For 10 points, name this Spanish  character who relentlessly seduces women.   ']
['thief    ', ' The Gospel of Nicodemus  names two people with this occupation as Gestas and Dismas. John 12  describes Judas as one of these people to explain his criticism of Mary anointing Jesus with pure nard. While clearing out the money -changers and merchants in the Temple, Jesus laments that a house of  prayer has become a gathering place for these people. After a man  of this occupation asks Jesus to ||  remember him, he is promised entry into Paradise. It's not a bridegroom, but many Bible verses compare the Second Coming of Christ to the appearance of one of these people "in the night." Jesus was crucified alongside two of these people. For 10 points, in John 10, Jesus says the Devil is like what kind of person, who "comes only" to steal? ']
['James Abram Garfield   ', ' This president gave his on ly campaign speech to placate a rival faction at the Fifth Avenue Hotel. This  president received a personal request by one man to be appointed to a “Paris consulship”, which this president rebuffed. The Morey Letter painted this president as a supporter of  Chinese immigration. This  president attacked his opponent for claiming that tariffs were a "local issue” to win an election against Winfield Scott || Hancock. This president ran alongside a corrupt Collector of the Port of New York at the behest of Rosco e Conkling. After shooting this president at the Baltimore and Potomac railroad station, one  man proclaimed "I am the Stalwart of Stalwarts". For 10 points, name this Ohio president who was assassinated by Charles Guiteau and succeeded by Chester Arthur.   ']
['compression   ', ' Marcus Hutter believes that performing this task is equivalent to creating effective AI and has sponsored a prize rewarding incremental improvements. The Burrows-Wheeler and move- to-front  transforms can be used when preprocessing data for this task. This task can be approached by building prefix -free codes whose length is inverse to their ||  frequency. Lempel and Ziv's algorithms for this task  maintain a dictionary  of previously seen tokens that it maps to each symbol. The works of Shakespeare are  common sources of text used in benchmarks of this task's performance. Perfectly efficient algorithms for this task include Huffman coding and are termed lossless. For 10 p oints, name this task which reduces the size of  data when creating zip files.   ']
['NATO    ', ' Mary Elise Sarotte's ("suh -RAH-tee’z")  recent history of this organization, Not One Inch , takes its title  from a question asked by James Baker that was later interpreted to be a pledge. A 2014 meeting of this  organization in Wales formalized a 2% target most members failed to hit. In a reversal of the Paasikivi–Kekkonen  ("PAH -see- kee-vee KEK -oe-nen") doctrine, Sanna Marin ("SAH -nuh MAH -rin") co-applied for  membership of this organization in 2022. This organization is c urrently headed by the so -called Tony  Blair of Norway, ||  Jens Stoltenberg. A 1995 op-ed by George Kennan argued that it was a "fateful error" for  the US to expand this organization. In 2022, Finland applied to join this organization, whose member countri es  are protected by Article 5. For 10 points, name this US- led European military alliance.   ']
['Jasper Johns   ', ' This artist's instructions for being an artist are, "Take an object. Do something to it. Do something else to it." This artist applied a great deal of sculpmetal to a store -bought tool for his sculpture Flashlight  I. This artist made a cast of Merce Cu nningham's foot and made designs for Cunningham's dancers with  his lover Robert Rauschenberg. A joke about this man's dealer Leo Castelli led him to create a sculpture of two ||  Ballantine Ale cans titled Painted Bronze . This artist's paintings of "things the mind already knows"  include his encaustic paintings of targets and a monochrome white painting where collage techniques were used to create the 48 stars and 13 stripes. For 10 points, name this American pop artist of White Flag .  ']
['Thebes    ', ' This city was the birthplace of the celebrated musician Pronomus. Nearly all currency minted in this city contained an image of a figure -of-eight infantry shield on it. This city defeated a numeric ally  superior force at Tegyra  ("tuh -GYE- ruh") . Prior to the Third Sacred War, this city controlled the  Amphictyonic (“am -fik-tee-ON-ick”) League. This city financed the rebuilding of a fortified city called  Messene ("muh -SEE- nee") , mostly populated by anot her city's former ||  helots. Troops from this city  employed the "cutting off the snake's head" technique to defeat Cleombrotus of Sparta. The Cadmea was the name of this city's acropolis. A military unit in this city consisting of 150 couples was led by Epaminondas  ("eh- puh- muh -NON -dus")  at Leuctra. For 10 points, name this Greek city in Boeotia ("bee -OE-shuh")  home to the Sacred  Band. ']
['Pip   ', ' After returning to his hometown and seeing a play, this character is mocked by an apprentice named Trabb. This character notes how "the shape of the letters on my father's [tombstone] gave me an odd idea that he was a square, stout, dark man." This character feels wracked with guilt after stealing a pork pie from a pantry during a Christmas dinner with church clerk Mr. Wopsle. This character's uncle Mr. || Pumblechook falsely takes credit for raising him after he moves to London and leaves the blacksmith shop  of Mrs. Joe. This character ultimately discovers that Australian sheep rancher Abel Magwitch is his benefactor, rather than the spurned Miss Havisham. For 10 points, name this protagonist of Charles Dickens' novel Great Expectations .  ']
['adhesive s   ', ' Waterproof examples of these substances have been inspired by a bi·valve -produced example whose  iron and vanadium ions denature proteins. In one of these substances, the nitrile group of a  cyano·acrylate ester reacts with a basic surface in the presence of moisture and rapidly polymerizes. Poly·vinyl acetate is a common but weak one of these substances which in a common demonstration crosslinks with borax to form ||  slime. A strong one of t hese substances works by hardening a matrix of  epoxy resins. Lipstick tubes inspired the Henkel company to design sticks for applying these substances, one of which comes in a liquid white form produced by Elmer's. For 10 points, name these substances used to join objects together. ']
['domestic sheep    ', ' Huge queues of these animals clog rural Icelandic roads each September during the réttir festival. The body of one of these animals was donated to the National Museum of Scotland in 2003 by the Roslin Institute following work by Keith Campbell. These animals were granted royal rights -of-way in Castille  under the Mesta system. Merchant William Jarvis imported thousands of high -quality Spanish examples  of these species to Vermont, helping the ||  Merino breed spread in the US. Prior to the Federation Drought,  there were over 100 million of these creatures being raised in Australia for fleece exports. For 10 points, Dolly  was a cloned example of one of what mammalian species that are often shorn for their wool? ']
