['adiabatic    ', ' A class of quantum techniques named for this adjective is exemplified by the annealing method  allegedly used for optimization by the D -Wave One computer. That quantum computing technique uses a  result named for this adjective, which states that a system  remains in the same eigenstate    of the Hamiltonian if it is changed slowly. A quantity named for this adjective is 1.4 for a diatomic gas and is denoted gamma, such that ||  pressure times volume to the power gamma is constant in processe s of  this type. Reversible processes of this type are isentropic, such as the expansion phase of a Carnot     cycle. In processes of this type, the change in internal energy equals the work done. For 10 points, name this type of process with no net heat transfer.   ']
['Zora Neale Hurston   ', ' In a novel by this author, Lucy Potts worries about falling off a foot- log and being bitten by the l ocal  cotton-mouth moccasin, prompting John to crush it. After taking a job in the "muck," the protagonist of another novel by this author gets into a fight with her husband over a woman named Nunkie. In a novel by this author, Hattie conjures a spell on Lucy causing her to fall ill and die, reflecting this author's ||   ethnographic studies on Hoodoo rituals. A novel by this author of Jonah's Gourd Vine  is framed as a  conversation with Pheoby Watson that takes place after its protagonist arrives at Eatonvill e. A rabid Tea Cake is  shot by his wife Janie in, for 10 points, what author's novel Their Eyes Were Watching God ?  ']
['La bohème   ', ' A line from this opera, "Addio, senza rancor," appears on th e tombstone of Australian soprano Nellie  Melba, who regularly sung parts from it at Covent Garden. In 1926, King Vidor directed the most notable of at least eight silent film adaptations of this opera, many of which claimed to be based on the original Henr i Murger novel for copyright reasons. 1920s gramophone clubs often owned recordings of  "Che ||  gelida manina"    from this opera. A waltz from this opera made into the  pop hit "Don't You Know" is sung during a quarrel at the C afé Momus. A musical based on this opera changed  its setting to the East Village during the AIDS crisis. Rent  was based on, for 10 points, what opera composed by  Giacomo Puccini titled for poor Parisians such as Mimi? ']
['Bellerophon    ', ' In a story about this character in the Iliad , this hero is given a "folded tablet" inscribed with  "murderous symbols," which he gives to his host after nine days of feasting. This hero exchanged a valuable cup for a belt from King Oineus  , according to Diomedes, who hears this man's  story from Glaucus. After this character becomes "hateful to the gods", he is sent to ||  wander on the  Plain of Aleion. This man is eventually betrothed to Philonoe , the daughter of King Iobates,  whose wife falsely accused this hero of assaulting her. This hero uses an arrow dipped in hot lead to slay a monster with a lion's head and a goat's body. For 10 points, name this hero who kills the Chimera with the help of Pegasus.   ']
['1/2    ', ' Euler's   reflection formula is a simple way to find the value of the gamma function at this  number; that value is the square root of pi. Weierstrass's   variant of trig sub simplifies  integrals  using a variable equal to the tangent of this number times theta, which equals sine theta over  the quantity "one plus cosine theta". This number is the real part of all known non- trivial zeros of the ||  Riemann zeta function. One-half of the perimeter times the apothem of a regular polygon is this fraction of the  area. This fraction is the second term of the harmonic series. This fraction is the multiplicative inverse of the  smallest prime. For 10 points, name this fraction equidistant from one and zero. ']
['Woodstock  Rock Festival    ', ' This event was financed by "Young Men with Unlimited Capital," Joel Rosenman and John Roberts, although plans to charg e an entrance fee were quickly dropped. A summer -long event often billed as the  "Black" version of this event was organized by Tony Lawrence and was the subject of a 2021 documentary by Ahmir Thompson. Michael Wadleigh's documentary about this event popula rized the  idea that a lot of || "brown acid" was used during it. A group called the Hog Farm set up a free kitchen during this muddy event, which took place on Max Yasgur's farm. Most people had already left this "three days of peace and music" by the tim e Jimi Hendrix played the National Anthem. For 10 points, name this 1969 outdoor  concert held in upstate New York. ']
['utilitarianism   ', ' This philosophical the ory is attacked using the example of Jim, a captain named Pedro, and twenty  prisoners in an essay by Bernard Williams. Because of this theory's problems accommodating supererogation, it is open to the "demandingness objection." John Rawls criticized this theory on the grounds that it does not respect the "separateness of persons." Henry Sidgwick was a proponent of this theory, which he referred to as "universalistic ||  hedonism" in The Methods of Ethics . A proposed formal  algorithm for this theory was the "felicific calculus" developed by Jeremy Bentham. J. S. Mill wrote a book titled after, for 10 points, what consequentialist ethical theory that seeks 'the greatest good for the greatest number'? ']
['Khmer  empire    ', ' In the 1920s, Jean Commaille  decided to leave several of the sites of this empire in a  "ruined" state for political purposes. It's not related to Srivijaya, but George Cœdès  used this  empire's Stela 127 to argue that the number "zero" was not a Western invention. A half-m ile-long bas- relief decorates the third enclosure of a temple complex built by this empire that was visited by Zhou || Daguan. In 1177, a king of this empire defeated the rival Cham kingdom and seized its capital; three centuries later, this empire fell to the Ayutthaya Kingdom. A complex whose architecture mimics Mount Meru was constructed by this empire's king Suryavarman II. For 10 points, name this empire that built a temple complex or "Wat" in Cambodia.   ']
['George Bernard Shaw   ', ' A play by this author ends with a stage direction where a couple embrace but "do not know the secret  of the poet's heart." In another play by this author, a woman's speculation about how her gin- loving aunt   may have been killed is presented as "the new small talk." That scene shocked contemporary audiences when this author's friend, actress Mrs. Patrick Campbell, said "not ||  bloody likely." One of this author's  title characters is forced to decide between her husband James Morell and Eugene Marchbanks. This playwright of Candida wrote a play whose protagonist decides to marry Freddy Eynsford- Hill after being taught diction by  Henry Higgins. For 10 points, name this Irish playwright who wrote about the cockney flower girl Eliza Doolittle in Pygmalion.  ']
['Toronto   ', ' In this city, Peter McLaughlin legally adopted 60-year- old Steven Whitfield to pass on below -market  housing on islands ser ved by Billy Bishop Airport. A medicine wheel appears on a "3D Sign" in this city's  Nathan Phillips Square. Industrialist Henry Mill Pellatt  built the 98 -room Casa Loma castle in  this city. The William Davies Company is the origin of this city's  nickname of Hogtown. This city is the  most populous in the "Greater Golden Horseshoe," a region that also contains a research university at || Waterloo. This city's Bay Street is its country's equivalent to Wall Street. In this city, a stadium originally   called the SkyDome is home to the only MLB team in its country. For 10 points, name this most populous city in Ontario. ']
['Crimea n War    ', ' Chef Alexis Soyer invented an improved camp stove to feed troops during this conflict. One hero of this conflict funded future work by selling engravings of the painting The Mission of Mercy . During this  war, art dealer Agnew & Sons financed Roger Fenton's photojournalism, and a "hotel" selling healing herbs and tonics was established by Jamaica -born Mary Seacole. The ability to speak French was one  reason why Lord ||  Raglan was put in charge of British forces in this war. A long siege during this war  followed one side's victory at Inkerman. An overcrowded hospital in Scutari during this conflict was made more sanitary under the direction of Florence Nightingale. For 10 points, name this 19th century war with Russia over a namesake peninsula.   ']
['glycogen   ', ' The central priming protein that forms this molecule initially attaches up to seven monomers to its tyrosine 194 because the enzyme which synthesizes this molecule cannot work without having at least 3 residues present. Ethanol precipitation of RNA typically incorporates this molecule to maximize recovery. UDP is conjugated to this molecule's monomers prior to incorporation via alpha 1,4 ||   glycosidic bonds. This molecule's many 1,6 glycosidic bonds create its many branches . Epi·neph·rine stimulates the breakdown of this substance to provide fuel for glycolysis. This molecule functions in animals analogously to starch in plants. For 10 points, identify this polymer that stores energy in the liver and muscles, which consists of thousands of glucose units.  ']
['Grete    Samsa   ', ' Description or proper name acceptable. In the hopes of being promoted, this character spends her  evenings studying "shorthand and French." This cha racter and her mother struggle to remove another  character's writing -desk and chest of drawers containing a fretsaw. This character's parents watch her  "spring to her feet and stretch her young body" while on a tram ride to the countryside. This character,   who tells her parents that they have to get rid of "it," leaves scraps of ||  rotten food for the protagonist  under his bed. This character's violin playing draws her brother out of his room, which scares lodgers due to his monstrous appearance. For 10 points, name or describe this sibling who grows to disdain the bug- like  protagonist of a Franz Kafka novella. ']
['time s    ', ' The PTP protocol designates leaders to distribute this kind of data and is often used underground. The standard for this kind of data has a meaningless acronym chosen to placate French and English speaker s. The TAI   standard succeeded an idealized standard for this kind of data developed for  use in ephemerides   and is defined relative to the geoid. This kind of data is provided  alongside geophysical information by ||  GPS sa tellites, which use it to find their position. The NIST -F2 is  used to calibrate this kind of data. The SI definition of this data's basic unit is used by the UTC standard and relies on the fundamental frequency of the cesium atom. For 10 points, name this kind of data which is defined relative to an epoch and provided by clocks. ']
['Robert Schumann  ', ' The opening of a symphony by this composer was once thought to evoke an Adolf Böttger poem that declares, "O turn, o turn, and change your course." Trombones and horns play a chorale in the parallel key of E- flat minor to open the "Feierlich" movement of this composer's third symphony, which is in five  movements. This composer's B -flat major first symphony closes with a depiction of the titl e period ||  "In  Full Bloom." This composer was inspired by the coronation of an archbishop at the Cologne Cathedral to write his third symphony, which is named for a river in which he would later attempt suicide by drowning in 1854. For 10 points, name this German composer of the "Spring" and "Rhenish" symphonies, who sometimes collaborated with his wife Clara.   ']
['shipwreck s   ', ' Rudyard Kipling wrote a poem celebrating the "Birkenhead Drill" that instituted a standard practice during these events. When news about one of these events reached London, the Lutine    bell at  Lloyd's Coffee House was struck one time. One of these events in 1975 resulted in the mandatory adoption of LORAN sys tems. A tradition during these events is erroneously traced to the death of  Edward Smith. A 1964 musical celebrated a nouveau riche socialite who survived one of these events named ||  Molly Brown. The Carpathia responded to one of these events in 1912 in a disaster for the White  Star Line. For 10 points, the dictum of "women and children first" was followed during what type of disaster that killed thousands on the Titanic ?  ']
['vowel s    ', ' A speaker's distinction between these things can be measured by the Pillai  score. These things show  up as dark bands when visualized in spectrogram software like Praat and can usually be identified by  examining their first two formants. One of these things represented by a lower-case epsilon was gradually replaced by one represented by a lower -cased ash amongst Californians. These things are charted on the  vertices of a ||  trapezoid representing the mouth and range from open to close in the IPA. Single speech  sounds that are represented by two of these things are called diphthongs. These things undergo nasalization when placed before a nasal consonant. For 10 points, name these things represented by the letters a, e, i, o, and u. ']
['Wicca    ', ' An untranslatable chant used in this religion that opens "Eko, eko, azarak" was popularized by Doreen Valiente. A tenet of this religion states that the energy that one puts into the world is returned threefold; that doctrine is called the Rule of Three. This religion's "Rede" is a moral code that commands, "An ye harm none, do what ye will." The liturgical calendar of this religio n is called the ||   Wheel of the Year and includes eight "sabbats." One of this religion's founders, Gerald Gardner, was inspired by Margaret Murray's research into historical worship of a Horned God. This religion's practitioners are organized into covens. For 10 points, name this neopagan religion whose followers practice witchcraft. ']
['Li Bai   ', ' A biography of this author, written by the novelist of War Trash , analyzes how lines like "the wind,  tens of thousands of miles long" were inspired by his relocation to a mountainous region as a five- year - old. This author wrote that it is "so late that the dew soaks my gauze stock ings" and that the "steps are  already quite white with dew" in their four -line "Jewel Stairs' Grievance." The speaker wonders "if it's  || hoarfrost on the ground" in a much-memorized poem by this author whose speaker "lower[s] his head and  think[s] of home." This poet legendarily died after reaching out of a boat towards the reflection of the moon while drunk. "Quiet Night Thought" and "Drinking Alone By Moonlight" are by – for 10 points – what Tang era Chinese poet? ']
['El Greco    ', ' This artist agreed to a reduced fee of 350 ducats rather than remove the Three Marys from a painting where those women stare at a man operating a drill. Irvin Rock coined a fallacy named for this artist that an astigmatism was why he gave Saint Sebastian such a long neck. A figure with two faces appears to the right of a ghostly Laocoon w restling with a snake in a painting by this artist of the || Disrobing of Christ .  Andres Nunez commissioned a painting by this artist in which Saints Stephen and Augustine wait to carry the armored title nobleman to Heaven. This Mannerist included a dark sky in his View of Toledo . For 10 points,  name this artist of The Burial of the Count of Orgaz , nicknamed for his Cretan origins.  ']
['mental hospital     ', ' A novel set in one of these places fictionalizes Frieda Fromm -Reichmann as a woman who discusses  the world of Yr with Deborah Blau. In a novel primarily set at one of these places, a failed vote against  rationing causes a character to drown hims elf in a pool. In that novel, characters in this type of place  pretend to watch the World Series on a blank television. This type of place is populated by ||  Acutes and  Chronics in a novel that ends with its mute narrator throwing a massive control panel through a window to escape. Chief Bromden is one of the many inhabitants of this type of place who are inspired by Randle Patrick McMurphy's rebellion against Nurse Ratched. For 10 points, name this setting of Ken Kesey's novel One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest .  ']
