['sieges    ', ' The legal concept of murum aries attigit derives from a Roman policy governing these events described  by Julius Caesar. A "parallel" named for these events was repeatedly employed by the Marquis de  Vauban. Polyidus   of Thessaly created a gigantic Helepolis for use in one of these  events. In the ancient world, it was common to construct an earthwork mole during these events. ||   Sappers were originally used for undermining efforts during these operations. A failed one of these operations at Rhodes in 305 BCE involved the use of a giant portable tower. Before the spread of gunpowder, "engines" such as trebuchets were widely used in these operations. For 10 points, name these military operations that might involve starving out a fortified castle.   ']
['rings  ', ' Carbon migrations may expand one of these structures to enhance car ·bo·cat ·ion stability. The  formation of an oxa·phosph·etane   containing o ne of these structures controls the  stereochemistry of the Wittig reaction. Molecules containing these structures and significant de·localization may produce a roughly 7 ppm NMR shift due to a namesake current. ||  Lactones are  esters containing one of the se structures, which are present in sugar structures depicted in Haworth      projections. Planarity, appropriate electron count, and one of these structures satisfy Huckel's rules for aromaticity. Five or six membered examples of these structures are the most stable. Benzene contains, for 10 points, what kind of molecular structure produced by a cycloaddition? ']
['double bass  ', ' The "Paganini" of this instrument, Giovanni Bottesini, composed a "Grand Duo Concertante" for two of them and orchestra. Domenico Dragonetti popularized the "German" style of playing this instrument. This instrument plays a muted solo beginning with the notes "D   , E  , F, E, D" under  alternating timpani strokes to open the third movement of Gustav Mahler's First Symphony, in reference  to the || nursery rhyme "Frère Jacques." This instrument, which descends from the viol da gamba and is thus  tuned in fourths, uniquely replaces the second violin in Franz Schubert's Trout Quintet . The cello is often  doubled in a lower octave by, for 10 points, what lowest- pitched string instrument in the orchestra?   ']
['J. R. R. Tolkien    ', ' An essay by this scholar argues that a successful author is a "sub-creator" who makes "a Secondary World which your mind can enter." An essay by this scholar contains an allegory about an old stone tower toppled by people looking in vain for "hidden carvings and inscriptions." This author of "On Fairy -stories" defended the literary merit of creatures like the dragon and ||  Grendel in "Beowulf: The  Monsters and the Critics." This scholar and C. S. Lewis were the two most famous members of the literary group the Inklings. His son Christopher compiled hi s stories about places like Númenor into The Silmarillion ,  his history of the land of Middle-Earth. For 10 points, name this British author of The Lord of the Rings. ']
['Washington , D.C.   ', ' On Election Day in 1857, the Chunkers and other nativist gangs in this city started an anti- Catholic  riot that killed 8 people. In 1848, 76 enslaved people escaped this city onboard the Pearl , only for bad  weather to doom their chance at freedom. This city was the Eastern terminus of a waterway nicknamed  the "Grand Old Ditch". After designing the Charleston County Courthouse, James ||  Hoban was asked  to design a prominent building in this city. Benjamin Banneker and Andrew Ellicott led the first surveys of this city. Contrary to popular belief, only 1% of this city was built on swampland according to the L'Enfant Plan of this city. For 10 points, name this city burned by the British in the War of 1812, damaging the White House. ']
['Jesus of Nazareth   ', ' A "Seminar" named for this man was criticized for having film director Paul Verhoeven as a member. The "criterion of embarrassment" is used  to assess the historicity of events in this man's life. An "e"  instead of an "i" in the spelling of a name makes it unclear whether Suetonius wrote about the followers of this man. Three scholarly "quests" about this man's life began after the publication  of a 1906 Albert  Schweitzer work. In Book 20, Chapter 9 of the ||  Antiquities of the Jews , Josephus mentions James as the  brother of this man, who was killed on the orders of Pontius Pilate. For 10 points, name this religious leader, whom most historians agree was a real person who lived in first century Judea and was crucified.   ']
['Spanish  ', ' A poet who mainly used this language wrote that "I'm going to h ide behind language" in their  collection Extracting the Stone of Madness . A poem in this language repeats "pretend I'm chaste," and is  titled "You Want Me White." One poet used this language to write that "the earth will be a soft cradle" and to describe " that frozen niche [where] men have put you" in a sequence about their dead lover, titled  || Sonnets of Death. Another poet used this language to write that "it is the hour of departure" and "in you  everything sank!" in the last part of their collection Tw enty Love Poems and a Song of Despair . For 10 points,  name this language used by Gabriela Mistral    and Pablo Neruda.  ']
['diuretic s   ', ' The first modern drug of this type, now primarily used to treat glaucoma, is the carbonic anhydrase inhibitor aceta·zola·mide. Drugs of this type that inhibit epithelial sodium channels act in a potassium - sparing manner. These drugs, along with beta blockers, angiotensin inhibitors, and ACE inhibitors are agents of choice for chronic heart failure. The most potent of these substances, like furo·se·mide, act on the || ascending loop, while thiazide examples act on the sodium-chloride symporter of the distal convoluted tubule. These drugs help lower blood pressure in part by reducing blood volume and are used by athletes attemptin g to cheat drug tests. For 10 points, what type of drugs cause an increase in urine production?  ']
['declaring bankruptcy    ', ' Farmers were given the right to engage in these events by the Frazier-Lemke Act of 1934. Following  these events, FpML guidelines mandate that SubTier1 stakeholders are lowest in seniority and thus have the lowest priority. A 2005 paper co -authored by Elizabeth Warren argued that individuals who start  these events were likely to have had a medical emergency. The US code governing these events allows for an automatic ||  stay. On September 15, 2008, the largest one of these proceed ings in US history was started  by Lehman Brothers. These events may be followed by a reorganization in the Chapter 11 type, unlike Chapter 7, which leads to liquidation. For 10 points, name this legal process in which debtors obtain relief from their credi tors.  ']
['Xerxes the Gre at    ', ' After an irksome encounter with the governor Pythius, this man had Pythius's son cut in two, then instructed his soldiers to march through the two halves of the dead body. The mother of this king's mistress was horribly disfigured on the orders of his jealous wife Amestris. Herodotus claims that this ruler ordered his men to drop chains in the ocean and ||  lash the ocean 300 times after the destruction of  his pontoon bridges. Scholars most often identify King Ahasuerus from the Book of Esther with this ruler, who had a throne set up on Mount Aigaleo so that he could watch his navy's performance at the Battle of Salamis. For 10 points, name this hubristic king of Persia, who invaded Greece to avenge the defeat of his father Darius. ']
['Cuba    ', ' The "super grandfathers" from this country recorded a breakout album in which Ry Cooder played slide guitar. A Wim Wenders documentary captures artists in this country's EGREM Studios recording an album that opens with a trova  song titled "Chan Chan." The film Too Many Girls  popularized a  carnival dance from this country where participants kick out their legs on the fourth beat. A 1996 world music album was named for this country's ||  Buena Vista Social Club. In the 1930s, a band from this  country called Arcaño y sus Maravillas  pioneered a variation of the danzon genre that eventually gave way to  mambo . For 10 points, conga drummer Desi Arnaz was born in what country, the home of the rumba?  ']
['telescope    ', ' In 2018, the NSF transferred control of one of these things to the University of Central Florida without an increase in funding. 38 kupuna  were arrested in 2019  after blockading an access road for a  proposed one of these things. The namesake of one of these things fired a gay employee during the Lavender Scare, which has prompted a recent renaming petition. After a lengthy cooling period in early 2022, one of the se things used a device called ||  NIRCam for alignment. One of these things in Puerto Rico  collapsed in 2020. A controversial "Thirty Meter" one of these things is being built on Mauna Kea. For 10 points, the James Webb is what kind of scientific device t hat will observe early stars?   ']
['The Great Gatsby   ', ' Characters originally from this novel transform into koi  fish after jumping into water in Nghi Vo's   The Chosen and the Beautiful . Maureen Corrigan argued that "one of the first graphic novel  moments" in Western literature occurs due to the dash that represents a dock on the last page of this  novel. Michael Pekarofski's argument that this novel is a ||  Jewish passing narrative examines its  references to the fictional book The Rise of Colored Empires , as well as its portrayal of the bootlegging gambler  Meyer Wolfsheim. John T. Irwin connected the light of a movie screen to this novel's symbol of a green light. For 10 points, name this novel largely set on East Egg by F. Scott Fitzgerald. ']
['plane s   ', ' Matches always exist in the game Dobble  because its cards form a finite example of these objects that  has been augmented with intersections at infinity. Every boundary point of a convex set is "supported" by one of these objects. According to the ham sandwich theorem, there exists one of these objects that can evenly split three labeled sets of points. These objects may be d efined in ||  point-normal form by using any  three non- collinear points and taking the cross product of their vectors. Two distinct examples of these objects  will intersect along a line or not at all. Descartes was the first to assign coordinates to these objects. For 10 points, name these two-dimensional objects which extend infinitely in all directions. ']
['Siberia     ', ' In this region, Daniel Me sserschmidt discovered the first fossils of a creature known locally as the  maimanto . Traders used a road usually named for this region to bring tea to the Irbit fair. The conquest  of this region was aided by a victory over Kuchum Khan's forces at Qashliq by an army led by Yermak. The yasak tax, applied to the indigenous people of this region, was usually paid in fur. In the 19th century, the Akatuy Katorga in this ||  "prison without a roof" was home to many exiled Polish nationalists.  A transportation project named for this region ends in Vladivostok and needed to go around this region's Lake Baikal. For 10 points, name this frigid eastern region of Russia. ']
['Antigone      ', ' This character is accused of a crime after a description of a "power that crosses the white sea," which inspired lectures by Martin  Heidegger. This is the younger of two characters who are interrupted by an  unnamed "Stranger" in a sacred grove. A play titled for this character features the line "Wonders are many, and none is more wonderful than man." Guards see this character pouring wine on the ground after the end of a dust storm.This character's suicide in a cave prompts the suicide of her lover ||   Haemon   . This woman, who acts as a guide for her father in a play set in Colonus, is sentenced to  death by Creon after trying to bury the body of her brother Polyneices  . For 10 points, what  daughter of Oedipus names a Sophocles play? ']
['tacos   ', ' Cucumbers are often added to this  food for a "cozy" meal consumed on Fridays in Sweden. The so- called "Lyon" or "French" version of this food is always pluralized and may have been invented by the  Moroccan Moubarek family. A franchise named for this food previously used Mission Revival architecture and adapted a novel preparation of it from the Mitla Cafe. The Rubios chain popularized  adding seafood to this food. In 2019, LeBron James was denied a trademark for consuming this food on || Tuesdays. Roy Choi helped popularize the "Korean" carne asada version of this food. A business named for  this food partnered with Frito-Lay to make a Dorito-flavored hard shell. For 10 points, what Mexican- American  street food names a franchise founded by Glen Bell? ']
['Shah of Iran     ', ' One holder of this title angered critics by extending the Vienna Convention to all US contractors, making them immune from local prosecution. A holder of this title was praised by a US President for  ruling over "an island of stability in shark infested waters."A holder of this title established a Literacy Corps as part of a series of secular reforms termed the ||  White Revolution. Jimmy Carter allowed the last  holder of this title to seek refuge in New York for cancer treatment. The SAVAK was controlled by the last holder of this title, who came to power after the ouster of Mohammed Mossadegh. For 10 points, name this title held by Mohammed Reza Pahlavi, who was overthrown in a revolution that installed Ayatollah Khomeini. ']
['yellow    ', ' This color is the background of the Met's Portrait of Madame Ginoux. A pipe and some tobacco leaves  rest on a simple object of this color in an 1888 still- life often held to be a self -portrait. Along with brown,  this color dominates the bottom half of a landscape with crows usually c onsidered the artist's last  painting. The chair in the painting Chair with Pipe  is this color, as is the bedframe in the same artist's  painting ||  Bedroom in Arles . A clock reads 12:15 in a painting whose bottom half is dominated by this color;  that painting is The Night Cafe . An artist holds his brush to flowers of this color in a portrait by the artist's  friend Paul Gauguin. For 10 points, name this color that dominates Vincent van Gogh's paintings of sunflowers. ']
['magnetic  field and electric field    ', ' These two  quantities are obtained by mult iplying elements of a tensor written capital F by minus one - half of the Levi- Civita tensor, or by the speed of light, respectively. These quantities are calculated by  accounting for propagation delay in Jefimenko's equations. In macroscopic materials, thes e two  quantities are replaced by similar ones denoted by D and H. Up to a constant, energy flux is represented by the cross product of these quantities in the ||  Poynting vector. The curl of one of these quantities equals  minus the partial time derivative  of the other, by Faraday's Law. Along with velocity, these two vector  quantities cause the Lorentz force on a moving charged particle. For 10 points, name these two vector fields symbolized B and E. ']
['The Great Sphinx  of Giza   ', ' A 1992 New York Times op- ed by orthodo ntist Sheldon Peck argued that the dental features of this  monument meant that it does not depict the man who erected a stele next to it. A ruler who was promised  "White and Red Crowns" constructed the Dream Stele next to this monument. A team led by Giova nni  Battista Caviglia unsuccessfully tried to excavate this monument but did find a piece of a || cobra that was once affixed to its head. This monument features a headdress called a nemes and most likely depicts a ruler named Khafre. Legend has it that a cannonball shot by Napoleon destroyed this object's nose. For 10 points, name this monumental Egyptian sculpture of a mythical creature. ']
