['Sūn Wùkōng    ', ' This character leads a prince away from his hunting expedition to tell him that his father had been  pushed down a well three years prior. This character sets all the horses free after learning the low status of his position as "Keeper of the Heavenly Horses." This character writes "Th e Great Sage Equal to  Heaven reached this place" on a pillar, then urinates on it, only to discover that it is a giant ||  finger.  This character is born from a stone egg and is taught the "72 transformations" in a novel which is titled for them in Arthur Waley's translation. This character earns Buddhahood after retrieving scriptures alongside Sandy, Pigsy, and the monk Xuánzàng   . For 10 points, the novel Journey to the West  features what  legendary primate? ']
['Germany     ', ' A popular illustrated children's book from this country includes a story about a "Scissor Man" who punishes a boy for thumb- sucking. A folk hero from this modern -day country, known as Owlglass in  Victorian England, was a trickster fond of scatological pranks. The children's book Shock -headed Peter   was a hit with parents in this country, whose folklore also includes stories about household sprites called || kobolds. A rock in this country that gives off a mysterious echo inspired a legend about a woman who  became a siren after throwing herself into one of its rivers. The Lorelei is a legendary figure from this country. For 10 points, name this modern-day country where many fairy tales were collected by the Brothers Grimm.   ']
['Battle of Shiloh   ', ' A celebrated general in this battle who surrendered his sword to Francis Marion Walker was named Benjamin Prentiss. After severe losses during this battle's first day, one general declared, "lick 'em tomorrow, though." Prior to this battle, Union forces camped between Lick Creek and Owl Creek did not fortify their position on the assumption that Confederates would not attack after losing Fort || Donelson. Reinforcements under Don Carlos Buell helped stop an assault by P. G. T. Beauregard at this battle, thus turning the tide for the Union. Union forces at this battle had time to regroup thanks to a prolonged defense of the Hornet's Nest. For 10 points, name this first big bloodbath of the Civil War, an 1862 battle fought in Tennessee.   ']
['Newton 's second  law of motion    ', ' In special relativity, this statement contains a "transverse" and a "longitudinal" term, respectively  proportional to gamma and gamma- cubed. This statement's quantum mechanical analog is usually the  second equation in the st atement of Ehrenfest's   theorem. This statement gains a term  proportional to the rate of change of angular velocity, named for Euler , in a rotating frame. This  statement gains  a term equal to exhaust velocity times the mass -loss rate in the derivation of the || rocket  equation. Integrating this statement gives the definition of impulse. This law can be applied by using a free- body diagram and finding a vector sum of forces. For 10 points, name this law often given as "force equals mass times acceleration."   ']
['translation       ', ' 21 pleasures of this task are outlined in Lydia Davis's Essays Two . The BLEU score was developed to  assess the quality of this task. IBM researchers working on this task capitalized on the Hansard  dataset, a  byproduct o f a 1969 Canadian law. In 2016, Deborah Smith won an "International" award for this task  alongside Han Kang. David Foster Wallace attacked the Victorian sensibilities of ||  Constance Garnett's  approach to this task. A 1959 Roman Jakobson essay describes how circumlocutions might be used when  meanings differ in this task. A website automating this task took its name from Douglas Adams's Babel Fish. "False friends" often lead to errors in this task. For 10 points, name this task that might render a Spanish t ext in  English. ']
['Antonín Dvořák    ', ' A "prophecy" by this man titles a Joseph Horowitz book that examines the relative obscurity of composers such as Florence Price. The allegro con fuoco final movement of a  symphony by this composer  introduces a brass motif consisting of the notes E   , F-sharp, G, F- sharp  , E, E. This composer  imitated the call of a scarlet tanager in his String Quartet No. 12, written around the same time that he wrote a symphony whose ||  largo  second movement contains an English horn solo inspired by baritone  singer Harry Burleigh. During a trip to Spillville, Iowa, this composer was inspired by African -American   spirituals such as "Swing Low, Sweet Chariot" to compose his E minor ninth symphony. For 10 points, name this Czech composer of the New World Symphony .  ']
['constitution s   ', ' Linda Colley's global history of these things begins with a biography of Pasquale Paoli and argues that their proliferation in the 19th century was due to the expense of naval warfare. A Broadway play by Heidi Schreck centered on what one of these things "means to me." The major work of The Economist   editor Walter Bagehot   was a book on the "English" one of these things, often said to be ||   "unwritten." One of these things finalized by the Great Sejm   on May 3rd, 1791 abolished the liberum  veto in the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. One of these documents was created following the failure of a meeting in Annapolis in 1786. For 10 points, name these documents, one of which was chiefly written by James Madison at a convention in Philadelphia.   ']
['impact  events   ', ' A layer of nanophase iron originating from these events may resolve the S -type conundrum by  producing a gradual reddening. The surface chemistry of rego ·lith is shaped by embedding of protons  and these events, which agglutinate particles together into a glassy mass. Tectonically inactive objects can be dated using the distribution of these events, w hich are the most energetic component of space ||   weathering. The smooth surface of the Mare   Imbrium stems from volcanism triggered by these  events, which are used to separate the periods of lunar geology. The Caloris basin of Mercury was created by a large example of, for 10 points, what events that produce craters on the moon? ']
['Parthenon   ', ' Fred Boissonnas's photos of this building illustrate a section about it as a "machine for stirring  emotion" in Le Corbusier's Towards a New Architecture. Lawrence Alma -Tadema imagined an artist  showing his friends a relief sculpture on this building. The Duveen Gallery houses sixteen metopes   from this building. In 1687, this build ing was badly damaged after ||  shelling by Francesco  Morosini of Venice. A battle between the Centaurs and the Lapiths was sculpted by Phidias for this building and is now at the British Museum thanks to Lord Elgin. The naos  of this temple originally hous ed a large  chryselephantine sculpture of a goddess of wisdom. For 10 points, name this temple dedicated to Athena on the Acropolis in Athens. ']
['Fyodor Mikhaylovich Dostoyevsky    ', ' In a story by this author, a German showman refuses to cut out Ivan after he is eaten alive by a crocodile. The "dreamer" protagonist of a story by this author falls for Nastenka over four winter evenings. One of this author's protagonists spends months preparing to  literally bump into a tall military  officer who insulted him. In a novella by this author of || "White Nights," the protagonist criticizes the  "Crystal Palace" of Nikolai Cherny ·shevsky prior to the section "Apropos of the Wet Snow." The protagonist of  that novella by this author claims to be a "sick" and "spiteful" man and demeans the prostitute Liza. Notes from the Underground is by – for 10 points – what author, who created Raskolnikov in Crime and Punishment ?  ']
['Greenland    ', ' This nation's flag carrier airline reduced operations after the closure of a zinc min e at Maamorilik in  the late 1980s and still operates subsidized "settlement flights" to rural areas. This nation's Premier works from a penthouse office built above its first -ever shopping mall. This nation's KNI conglomerate  emerged from a colonial monopoly that established the port of Godhavn  on Disko  Island. The Queen Elizabeth Islands lie to this nation's northwest, where the US operates ||  Thule Air  Base. This nation's northernmost year -round port, Sisimiut, is second in population to its capital of Nuuk. It is  home to the only permanent ice sheet outside of Antarctica. For 10 points, name this largest island in the world, a constituent country of Denmark. ']
['Upanishads  ', ' One of these texts repeatedly declares "I am the food!" after explaining the five "sheaths" of food, breath, mind, understanding, and bliss. The method of "neither this, nor that," or neti neti, was introduced in these texts, which typically end by proclaiming "Peace! Peace! Peace!" In one of these texts, a father uses salt dissolved in water to teach his son that "Thou art that," or "tat tvam asi." The ||   Chandogya text of this type discusses the relationship between the self, or Atman , and "ultimate reality," or  Brahman, and influenced the philosophy of Arthur Schopenhauer. This set of roughly 108 texts founded the tradition of Vedanta, meaning "after the Vedas." For 10 points, name these late Vedic period commentaries on Hindu philosophy. ']
['Zulu    ', ' In 2021, a king of these people with the first name Goodwill appointed one of his wives as his  successor, but she died a month after he did. A 20th century leader of these people signed the Mahlabatini Declaration of Faith with Harry Schwarz and founded a "freedom party" named after their word for crown. After most of their land was seized in 1906, some of these people staged the unsuccessful  Bambatha Rebellion. ||  Mango ·suthu Buthe ·lezi led these people in the state of Natal. In 1878, Lord  Chelmsford captured an earlier leader of these people who was also Buthuelzi's grandfather, Cetshwayo. The "buffalo horns" battle formation was developed by, for 10 points, what Bantu people who were led by Shaka in South Africa? ']
['seroto nin   ', ' A condition which occurs due to excess amounts of this compound must be differentiated from neuro·leptic malignant syndrome. The constipation drug pru·calo·pride targets this molecule's class 4 receptors. This compound's receptors in the chemo·receptor trigger zone are blocked by anti·emetics like  on·dan·se·tron. This vaso ·constricting compound is secreted from the dense bodies of platelets along with  ADP and calcium. Nearly 80% of the body's supply of this neurotransmitter is found in || entero·chroma ffin cells in the enteric nervous system. This monoamine is produced by the sequential  hydroxylation and decarboxylation of tryptophan. SSRIs inhibit the reabsorption of, for 10 points, what neurotransmitter that regulates appetite and mood? ']
['Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?   ', ' The first film adaptation of this play opens with one character eating a chicken leg and another doing a crossword. A character in this play declares "we must carry on as though we did [know the difference between truth or illusion]" and describes himself as an "Abmaphid." Mike Nichols directed a film  adaptation of this play, which originally opens by quoting Beyond the Forest's "What a dump!" A  character in this play fires a ||  gag umbrella gun at his wife. This play, which contains a "Walpurgisnacht,"  ends after one character decides to "kill" his fictional son. History professor George and his wife Martha host a dinner party in, for 10 points, what Edward Albee play whose title references the author of Mrs. Dalloway ?  ']
['Sweden    ', ' During the 1867 "Year of Great Weakness" in this country, a famine sent emigrants such as future IWW member Joe Hill to the US. Two economists born in this country helped inspire the "Million Program" of public housing after publishing Crisis in the Population Question . An architect and diplomat  from this country, who was inspired by the film Pimpernel Smith  to save numerous Hungarian Jews, was  named ||  Raoul Wallenberg. A politician from this country who advocated "functional socialism" spoke out  against South Africa a week before his 1986 murder, a crime initially pinned on Christer Pettersson. For 10 points, name this Nordic country previously led by Olaf Palme that once formed a union with its western neighbor, Norway. ']
['Seamus Heaney   ', ' A poem by this author describes how the narrator " stood dumb / when your betraying sisters, /  cauled in tar, / wept by the railings." The lines "Out here in Jutland / In the old man- killing parishes / I  will feel lost, / Unhappy and at home" was based on this author's reading of P. V. Glob's book The Bog  People . This author described how the "summer's blood" of the title fruit of another poem causes  "palms" to be as "sticky as Bluebeard's." This poet of ||  "Blackberry -Picking" described "Big Jim Evans  saying it was a hard blow" in a poem in which the speaker's brother is placed in "a four-foot box, a foot for every year." For 10 points, name this Irish poet whose collection Death of a Naturalist  includes "Mid -Term  Break" and "Digging."   ']
['ANSW ER: Thomas Eakins   ', ' Smith College owns this artist's colonial revivalist painting of a woman at a spinning wheel, called In Grandmother's Time. This artist carved notes from a Mendelssohn passage into the frame of his portrait of soprano Weda Cook. In a noncommissioned portrait by this artist relegated to Ward One at the Centennial Exposition, the only woman in the painting cringes in horror to the left of the title figure, a professor at Jefferson. In another painting by this artist, a nude model poses for sculptor ||  William  Rush. An assistant holds a chloroform-doused cloth as students in an amphitheater take notes in a painting by this artist titled for a Philadelphia surgeon. For 10 points, name this American realist painter of The Gross Clinic .  ANSW ER: ']
['glass   ', ' Weeping and crizzling are forms of corrosion that can occur to this material due to improper levels of moisture and alkali. Austen Angell developed the concepts of strong and fra gile precursors to this  material. Network -forming cat ·ions and stabilizers form the bulk of this material, which forms through a  second -order phase transition involving the supercooling of a viscous fluid. Sodium carbonate serves as a  flux to lower the || transition temperature required to form a type of this substance to which lime is added for durability. This substance is given a low coefficient of thermal expansion through the addition of boron trioxide. Silica is melted to form, for 10 points, what amorphous solid? ']
['Sigmund Freud   ', ' In a book titled for this thinker and Philosophy , Paul Ricoeur calls this thinker a "master of  suspicion." In Life Against Death , Norman O. Brown endorses the perspective this thi nker takes on  religion in works like The Future of an Illusion. This thinker's writings on the memoirs of Judge  Schreber are critiqued in the first volume of Deleuze and Guattari's Capitalism and Schizophrenia. Herbert Marcuse's book ||  Eros and Civilizat ion is a "philosophical inquiry" into this thinker partly titled  after the life drive Eros, which this thinker contrasted with the death drive Thanatos in Beyond the Pleasure Principle . For 10 points, Anti -Oedipus  was written in opposition to the psychoana lytic theories of what Austrian  thinker? ']
['college professors   ', ' In the UK, people in this profession need to apply to the REF every six years with evidence of their  "outputs." Germans in this profession with the most job security are said to have "habilitated themselves." "Freedom" for people in this profession has long been a cause of the AAUP. In 2021, a North Carolina- based Board of Trustees that makes hiring an d promotion decisions for people in this job  controversially denied an application from ||  Nikole Hannah-Jones. To get on a certain employment "track"  and avoid adjunct status, people in this job submit to high- impact journals as part of the "publish or p erish"  model. For 10 points, name this job where someone might earn tenure working at an institution such as Dartmouth. ']
